Overview
    Collecting ink sacs can prove quite time-consuming. To save time, a squid farm could be made to automatically gather ink sacs for your collection later on. There are two main ways to do it. The first is to dig a tunnel underneath the ocean; the second is to make a man-made lake, or find a shallow pre-existing lake.

Video
Spawning mechanics
    Squids will spawn in 1 or more blocks of water, no matter whether it's a water source or flowing water. The level of light is not important. Note that squid spawning mechanics are different between Java and Bedrock Edition. In Java Edition, 2 to 4 squid can spawn in water from Y-level 50 to 63 (inclusive), as long as the biome is a river or ocean variant. The block above must also be water, and the block below must be water or waterlogged. Squid share the water creature mob cap with dolphins. Squid cannot spawn in bubble columns. To have a better spawn rate in your farm you have to eliminate water blocks between 50 and 62 layers in a 128 block radius around the player and at least 24 blocks from the spawning area of the farm. In Bedrock Edition, 2 to 4 squid can spawn in ocean biomes, and two can spawn in river biomes. 5% of squid can spawn as babies. In addition, squid spawn only on the surface, i.e. there must not be a solid or spawnable block above the spawn location. Squid can spawn in bubble columns in this edition. There is a separate mob cap for water mobs (this doesn't include guardians), but the mob cap is shared among all players on a multiplayer server. Thus on a multiplayer server, if any player is near an ocean, it will effectively block output from your squid farm. As with other farms, it is important to kill the squid quickly to allow more to spawn.

Killing mechanisms
    Squid can be killed by asphyxiation if they get out of water. They can also be killed by fall damage or by entering lava. Guardians are hostile toward squid and will use lasers to kill them, however catching a guardian is hard even with boats.

Farm designs
  Artificial automatic squid farm design
    This design produces around 11,000 Ink Sacs per hour using Nether portals to optimize spawn rates and hopper minecarts for collection. As of 1.18, squid now need a height of 3 blocks to spawn and so the height of 2 blocks between glass layers in the video of this design means no squid will spawn in the farm. This design takes more time to be built but can achieve a very high ink rate. First of all you should clear as much water as possible out of the river or ocean biome within the render distance of the player. You have to build a chamber between layers 46 and 62, and fill it with water so squid will spawn. To make water push the squid to the bottom you have to place water sources only in the top layer, and also place solid column blocks, as water will only push if it has an adjacent solid block. Underneath the spawning chamber will be a layer of signs that can be traversed by squid but not water. Squid crossing the sign layer will land on a hopper platform, where squid will die either by fall damage or suffocation, and will gather all the resulting ink and send it to chests. One in survival mode, Minecraft 1.8.4, yielding about 4.2 stacks of ink per hour: This design is a Bedrock Edition only design requires a massive amount of materials but has a high rate of 408 ink per hour. Built over 100 blocks above sea level, the design takes advantage of the dual functionality of magma's downward bubble columns as well as the damage it causes to mobs, eventually killing them. This farm no longer can farm fish; however the squid mechanics are unaffected.

  Natural squid farm design
    This design is easy to build, as it uses the environment to build the farm, although the ink rate is very poor. You have to build a layer of signs below a lake or ocean, and dig a hole underneath, so squid will get through it and either die by suffocation or fall damage depending on how deep you dig the hole. The following video shows a natural squid farm built for Minecraft 1.4.7: This, Bedrock Edition only, design takes advantage of the allay which will gather the floating ink sacs of squid that die to axolotls. The same design can also be used to farm glow squid if built below y level 30.

