Overview
    Surviving in Adventure mode can be very difficult because you can not place blocks or break them without the proper tools (i.e. a pickaxe for stone). However, it is still possible to survive in this mode by finding resources in villages and dungeons, among other things.

Setting up an Adventure world
    The way to survive is choosing a normal world with generated structures. This is because there are jungle pyramids, mineshafts, desert pyramids, woodland mansions, shipwrecks, villages, dungeons, pillager outposts, strongholds, buried treasures, ocean ruins, ruined portals, igloos, swamp huts, nether fortress, bastions, nether fossils, end cities, ocean monuments, and ancient cities which can all be looted. If you want to, you can also enable "Bonus Chest" to generate a bonus chest. Once the terrain is loaded, using command /gamemode Adventure @s will switch the player into Adventure mode. If you want to, you can use a seed that have a stronghold that have an active end portal (because of the fact that you can't insert eye into end portal frame in Adventure mode), which have an chance of 1 in 1,000,000,000,000.

Surviving
    When you first spawn into your world, kill any mobs you come across, except for villagers, but make sure that you leave at least 2 of each animal, for breeding later. Try to sprint and jump as little as possible to save food. Killing sheep can be useful for their mutton, but remember that there is no use making a bed with their wool, as it cannot be placed in Adventure mode. However, you can sleep in beds inside village houses. Don't eat raw meat unless you're desperate; wait until you cook it in a furnace in a village blacksmith or in igloos. You can also trade it for emeralds if you wish, though this won't achieve much in the long run, unless you save up for diamond tools or armor. Many villager trades can be cheap and not worthwhile, so it's important to know what trades will be useful in the long run. See the trading article for more information.

  Villages
    The most important thing to do early in the game is to search for a village. For plains villages, if the village does not have a weaponsmith or a small house with a crafting table, search for another village, but take note of the first village's coordinates. You will have a much easier time if you find a plains village with both a weaponsmith and a small house with a crafting table. Use the crafting table in the small house for crafting and the 2 furnaces in the blacksmith for cooking meat. Crafting table can also spawn in igloo, pillager outposts, and witch huts. The easiest way to find a village is to first find a savanna, desert, taiga, plains, snowy taiga‌[BE  only], snowy tundra or meadow biome, and look throughout the whole biome. There is a good chance that once you have found one of these biomes, a part of that biome will contain a village. If you've found a village that does not have a furnace or a house with a crafting table, take notes of the coordinates and search for another village. That way, you will at least have a place to stay safe for the night. While crafting tables can be found in some village small houses, only some buildings generate furnaces. In the plains and desert villages, a furnace can only be found in village weaponsmith which contains 2 furnaces., In the savanna village, a furnace can only be found in one of village weaponsmith variants which contain 2 furnaces., In the taiga and snowy taiga villages, a furnace can only be found in one of village medium house variants, which contain a single furnace., In the snowy tundra village, a furnace can be found in most houses, such as in small houses, medium houses and mason houses. A furnace can also spawn in ancient cities. Smoker and campfire can also be used as furnace alternatives since the main use is only for cooking, and these blocks cannot smelt non-food resources. You can find a smoker in each village butcher shop, while campfires can only be found in taiga and snowy taiga villages. A smoker cooks food twice faster than a furnace, while campfires cook food three times longer than a furnace and can only cook up to 4 items, but can cook different foods at the same time and don't require fuel. After you have found a village and settled in, loot the chest in all buildings. Use the lava as a trash can for useless stuff you find in the chest or obtained from creeper explosions (see below). You can now use this chest for your storage purposes. Barrels in the village fisherman house can also be used to store items., Taiga and snowy taiga village buildings don't generate lava. If the village bell is reachable by many villagers and there are enough villagers for gossiping, and you have enough armor and preparation, you can kill the iron golem for its iron ingots. However, be very careful, as you can't tower up to kill iron golems (unless your world have a favorable terrain), iron golems have lots of health, and can deal great amounts of damage. Iron golems can also spawn in pillager outposts.

  Gaining resources
    Gathering resources in Adventure mode can be difficult, as blocks cannot be mined or placed. One extremely useful tactic is to get creepers to blow up a house, farm in a village, terrain, terrain feature, feature, or other structures; this way, you can get wood and cobblestone. Wheat can be used to breed animals or crafted into bread, though seeds cannot be replanted. Trampling is a more efficient way as you will not lose any of the wheat, however, melon farms in savanna and desert villages and pumpkin farms in taiga and snowy taiga  are useless due to trampling stem drop seeds while pumpkins and melon are unbreakable. since you cannot place or destroy blocks in Adventure mode; only blocks that are used in crafting or for trading can be useful. If you are lucky and have enough supplies, you can get creepers to blow up gravel and craft flint and steel which can only be used to ignite creepers or TNT. You can also make arrows with flint, although this is probably unnecessary because they can be obtained by killing skeletons. Note that bone meal cannot be used on pre-mature wheat, since that counts as interacting with a block or object.[verify] A fishing rod can also be useful since it not only gives you infinite amounts of fish but can also give you junk and treasure items which can be useful in Adventure mode. Village animal pens and plains stables can also be used as a makeshift pen for animals and mobs. Endermen have the ability to move blocks and they are your only way to do such a thing. Once you are done with a village, take as many useful items as you can from your chest and head off for the next village. Repeat the above steps if necessary and see how long you can survive! It's also possible to find a mineshaft, dungeon, strongholds or even an ancient city by exploring caves. Although there are extremely valuable items you can find in chests, it is also extremely dangerous. For entering the stronghold, seek out the dead end of a corridor by exploring around in caves because sometimes dead-end corridors have an open hole to the cave. If you prefer to explore the ocean, shipwrecks and buried treasures (for those you'll need to remove the sand covering the chest with creepers) are the only structures which can be looted, as you cannot dig the blocks covering the chests in ruins, making that structure useless, another structure that is useless is ocean monuments which provide nothing more than just a challenge due to you being unable to break sponge and gold block, nor use prismarine from guardians as you cannot place blocks made from the prismarine you crafted. You can also find lootable structures on the surface. They are: jungle temples, pillager outposts, woodland mansions, and swamp huts (swamp huts continuously spawn witches).

  The Nether
    Accessing the Nether in Adventure mode is really difficult but not impossible. To build the nether portal you need to find a 5 blocks deep lava pool and to use creepers to funnel water so that it converts the bottom-most layer of lava into obsidian. Then, using the endermen's ability to place blocks, you need to remove all the lava sources except those which will create the portal. Endermen however will only place blocks where there is air, meaning that you will need a platform over the lava pool where endermen could place gravity affected blocks, then a creeper to blow up the platform to make those blocks fall into the lava and remove the lava sources you don't need.
You can then funnel more water to convert the remaining lava into obsidian, remove the water you used with the endermen's help once more and remove the blocks you used to remove the lava by exploding a creeper. Now you need to light the nether portal. There are 2 ways to do it: 1-block tall flowers are the only blocks (besides TNT but it will ignite when on fire) that are both enderman pickable and flameable blocks. But they need to have a dirt, grass block, or mud... block below so the flowers will place, and they don't break by flowing lava. You need a trident enchanted with Channeling (as you can't enchant in Adventure mode it needs to be dropped enchanted by a drowned) to light up the portal. A chipped anvil generate in the woodland mansion at the forge room, it can be used to enchant and combine tools for several use before the anvil breaks, but its unnecessary to come there just for enchanting with enchanted books as woodland mansion is a rare structure and not all mansions may generate a room with anvil. When you have a Channeling trident, you can light the portal by hit an entity with that trident. The entity can be a mob, another player, or even an item frame (although you can't place or break blocks in Adventure mode, you can place or break entity such as boats, boat with chests, minecarts, item frames, paintings...). Also, if you’re lucky enough, nether portal can be built by the world generation. There is a super small chance that a ruined portal generates inside the "lava room" in a woodland mansion. That ruined portal will need to fit the obsidian frame of the lava room, and doesn't have any crying obsidian. Finally the lava in the ruined portal will catch fire of the wood in woodland mansion. Over time, this will light the portal. Although it's very rare, some seeds already have this.[more information needed]

Obtainable items
    Note: Items with a use in Adventure mode are in bold.

  Overworld
    Creeper,Trading,Village chests,Other chest s,Killing mobs,Smelting,Other
    Dirt Coarse Dirt Rooted Dirt Mud Muddy Mangrove Roots,Armor Piglin : Leather Cap with soul speed Leatherworker: Leather Cap Leather Tunic Leather Pants Leather Boots Armorer: Chainmail Helmet Chainmail Chestplate Chainmail Leggings Chainmail Boots Iron Helmet Iron Chestplate Iron Leggings Iron Boots Diamond Helmet Diamond Chestplate Diamond Leggings Diamond Boots,Armor Village Armorer & Village Weaponsmith: Iron Helmet Iron Chestplate Village Weaponsmith: Iron Leggings Iron Boots Village Tannery: Leather Cap Leather Tunic Leather Pants Leather Boots,Armor Stronghold : Iron Helmet Iron Chestplate Iron Leggings Iron Boots Woodland Mansion : Chainmail Chestplate Diamond Chestplate Shipwreck : Leather Cap Leather Tunic Leather Pants Leather Boots,Armor from Zombie Skeleton Stray Husk Leather Cap Leather Tunic Leather Pants Leather Boots Golden Helmet Golden Chestplate Golden Leggings Golden Boots Chainmail Helmet Chainmail Chestplate Chainmail Leggings Chainmail Boots Iron Helmet Iron Chestplate Iron Leggings Iron Boots Diamond Helmet Diamond Chestplate Diamond Leggings Diamond Boots,Cooked meats/Fishes,Egg s
    Chest,Arrow,Bread,Diamond,Bone,Baked Potato,Milk
    Stairs,Bookshelf,Gold ingot Copper ingot (1.17 or later),Redstone dust,Bow,Nugget,Music discs
    Crafting table,Bottle o' Enchanting,Iron ingot,Emerald,Cooked meats/Fishes,,Seeds
    Dirt,Bread,Obsidian,Iron ingot,Feather,,Wheat
    Fences,Leather/Chainmail/Iron/Diamond armor,Leather/Iron armor,Leather/Chainmail/Iron Armor,Gunpowder,,Wool
    Flint,Clock,Pumpkin pie,Golden helmet,Ink sac,,Scute
    Furnace,Compass,Beetroot soup,Rotten flesh,Armor,,Mushroom
    Gravel,Cooked meats/Fishes,Potato,Treasure Map,Iron ingot,,Rabbit's foot
    Iron bars,Cookie,Carrot,Bone,Leather,,String
    Ladder,Stone/Iron/Diamond Tools .,Seeds,Diamond Chestplate,Rotten Flesh,,Rabbit hide
    Cobblestone,Diamond/Iron Swords,Iron Sword,Lead,Cooked meats/Fishes,,Feather
    Seeds,Emerald,Emerald,Gold Ingot,Redstone Dust,,Phantom Membrane
    Slabs,Ender Pearl,Spruce Log,Gunpowder,Slimeball,,Raw Chicken
    Torch es,Flint,Snowball,Spider Eye,Spider Eye,,Lead
    Trapdoors,Shield,Bucket,Nugget,String,,Tripwire Hook
    Wheat,Glass,Map,Iron Sword,Stick,,Bow
    "Log, Wood, Stripped Log, and Stripped Wood",Glowstone Dust,Iron Pickaxe,Lapis Lazuli,Wool,,
    Doors,Crossbow,Sapling,Ender Pearl,Iron Axe,,
    Planks,Pumpkin Pie,Stick,Saddle,Potion From Witch : Potion of Fire Resistance Potion of Healing Potion of Water Breathing Potion of Swiftness From Wandering Trader : Potion of Invisibility,,
    Wool,Saddle,Saddle,Enchanted Book,Emerald,,
    Composter Barrel Fletching Table Loom Cartography Table Lectern Stonecutter Brewing Stand Blast Furnace Smithing Table Grindstone Cauldron Smoker,Shears,Shears,Tool,Mob Equipment Iron Shovel Source: Zombie Husk Zombie Villager ‌ [ JE only ] Iron Sword Source: Zombie Husk Zombie Villager ‌ [ JE only ] Vex Bow Source: Skeleton Stray From Drowned : Fishing Rod Trident Nautilus Shell From Zombified Piglin Golden Sword ‘’’ Crossbow ’’’ From Vindicator Iron Axe From Pillager Crossbow,,

