Overview
    A boat is a drivable vehicle entity used primarily for fast transport of players and passenger mobs over bodies of water. Bamboo rafts look different, but function almost identically to other boats.

Obtaining
    Boats can be crafted with any Overworld planks; crimson and warped planks cannot be used to make boats.[1] Boats can be retrieved by repeatedly hitting them until they drop as an item. Tools and weapons that deal more than 4 damage will instantly destroy a boat in one hit.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Matching Overworld Planks,"[[None, None, None], ['Oak Planks', None, 'Oak Planks'], ['Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks']]"

Usage
    Boats can be used for the transportation of players and mobs, sold for emeralds, or burnt as fuel.

  Crafting
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Boat with Chest,Chest + Matching Boat,"[[None, None, None], ['Chest', 'Oak Boat', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Trading
    Master-level fisherman villagers always offer to buy a boat for an emerald. The type of boat depends on the biome outfit type of the villager; plains villagers offer to buy oak boats, taiga and snowy villagers offer to buy spruce boats, savanna villagers offer to buy acacia boats, desert and jungle villagers offer to buy jungle boats, and swamp villagers offer to buy dark oak boats.

  Fuel
    A boat used as fuel in a furnace lasts 60 seconds, smelting up to 6 items.

  Transportation
    A player enters a boat by using it, if the boat is not fully occupied (boats can hold two entities). Unlike beds, there is no message above the hotbar for attempting to enter a fully occupied boat.[2] A boat can be exited by sneaking or, in Bedrock Edition, pressing down the right analog stick on a controller, tapping the "Leave Boat" button when using touch controls, or jumping. When exiting a boat, the player is placed in the direction the player is facing, or, if facing directly up or down, the player is placed in front of the boat. The exiting player is placed on land if possible from the dismounting position. Boats do not turn with mouse-look. With a keyboard or gamepad, boats are controlled using the forward, left (turns left), right (turns right), and backward keys. Using the sprint key increases the field of vision, but does not increase speed as if sprinting. With touchscreen controls, two buttons for steering appear. The right button or key steers to the left, and the left button or key steers to the right. Pressing both buttons or keys moves the boat forward. In Java Edition, boats can be ridden against a current, but cannot be ridden upstream to a higher elevation. A boat lift, usually made from tripwire, pistons, and optionally a slime block, can be used to move a boat up. Bubble columns created with soul sand can also be used to push boats upward. These mechanisms can also be used in Bedrock Edition but are usually unnecessary because boats can be ridden upward in descending water, as well as follow upward stair-step currents.

Behavior
  Speed
    Boats move according to the player's control or water currents, with speed affected by the surface traversed. Boats move extremely quickly on ice,[3] allowing for the construction of fast transportation systems in any dimension.

    Substance,Speed
    Water,8.0 blocks/s
    "Ice , Frosted Ice , Packed Ice",40 blocks/s
    Blue Ice,72.7 blocks/s
    Land,2.0 blocks/s

  Floatation
    A boat floats atop still or flowing water. In Java Edition, a boat sinks if it enters a waterfall.[4] In Bedrock Edition, a boat does not sink when submerged but floats up. This feature lets a player contrive stepped uphill water flows to propel a boat uphill using only flowing water. When a boat moves over a bubble column, it begins to shake. If the bubbles are caused by a magma block, all passengers are expelled and the boat sinks. In Java Edition, a sunken boat cannot be re-floated until a bubble column pushes it up or it is broken by the player. In Bedrock Edition, a boat resumes floating when it emerges from the currents keeping it down, or when the bubble column is blocked or removed. Dolphins chase players riding a boat in motion, occasionally bumping the boat, causing it to shake briefly.

  Destruction
    As boats are entities, they have health. Boats effectively have just over 4 (exactly 4 damage is not quite enough to destroy a boat), and regenerate 1⁄10 per game tick. Boats can be destroyed by explosions, fire and lava (but not magma blocks), cactus, and by being punched/shot by mobs, such as Drowned. Boats made invulnerable with commands cannot be broken by any of these, but they still cannot be used to travel on lava because they sink. When a boat is destroyed under normal conditions, it drops itself in item form. In certain conditions, such as when falling for exactly 12, 13, 49, 51, 111, 114, 198, 202, 310, or 315 blocks,[5] it drops two sticks and three planks upon being destroyed.

  Passengers
    Boats can support two riders, including mobs. Except for endermen in Bedrock Edition, a mob cannot exit a boat and is trapped until the boat gets destroyed, or until the player uses a fishing rod or lead to remove the mob. This can be used to transport mobs, although hostile mobs still attack while in boats. Mobs riding a boat don't despawn‌[Java Edition  only] and don't count toward the mob cap.[6] A player cannot both move (row) and use items at the same time. It is still possible to initialize item use (e.g. start eating) and row the boat while the item is still in the middle of the use animation. Although the rowing animation overrides the item use animation, the item can still be successfully consumed. This does not work with items that are triggered by the release of the use button (such as bows and tridents).‌[Java Edition  only] Being in a boat limits the player's mouse-look to the forward 210° arc in Java Edition and 180° in Bedrock Edition. Underwater boat cannot be ridden. When the boat is underwater, all passengers in it are expelled.

  Damage prevention
    Riding a boat does not deplete hunger, making it an efficient way to travel. Boats can completely nullify fall damage for themselves and any players/mobs inside, making them useful for travel through mountains or through the Nether.[7][8] However in Java Edition, due to a bug, boats can break when falling from certain heights, and the riders take fall damage.[5]

  Collision
    A boat has a solid collision box, which means players and other entities can't go through it even with high speed. Falling blocks are also blocked by boats. In Java Edition, a boat falling on top of an entity stops on top of the entity. in Bedrock Edition, a falling boat can go through other entities. Riding a boat over a lily pad causes the lily pad to drop, although the boat's speed stutters a bit.

  Mobs
    Most mobs can ride boats. Mobs cannot exit the boat unless the boat is destroyed, sinks, or moves over a bubble column. However, in Bedrock Edition, endermen are able to teleport out of boats. Mobs can be picked up into the boat when they collide with the side of the boat. A mob cannot control the boat. In Java Edition, a boat being ridden by a player cannot pick up a mob. In Bedrock Edition, mobs can be picked up by a boat being ridden by a player. A Mob is able to ride a boat if it has a width smaller than a boat, and is neither an aquatic[9] nor ambient animal. The following mobs are unable to ride in a boat: The baby counterparts of these mobs are able to ride in boats, but not the adult versions: Additionally, few types of mobs can have various Size, and depending on that, they can or can't fit in boats:

  Lead
    In Java Edition, leads cannot be attached to boats. In Bedrock Edition, leads can be attached to boats, though the lead can break when stretched too far due to boats moving much slower on land.

