Overview
    A firework rocket is an item (and entity) used for creating decorative explosions, boosting when flying with elytra, and loading into a crossbow as ammunition.

Obtaining
    Fireworks can be obtained by crafting. In Java Edition, a firework with no explosion effect is available on the Creative inventory and can be crafted as shown below. In Bedrock Edition, fireworks with the different base colors or no explosion are available in the Creative inventory.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe,Description
    Paper + Gunpowder,"[[None, None, None], ['Paper', '', None], ['', 'Gunpowder', None]]","When crafted this way (without a firework star), the rocket does not have explosion effects. The value of gunpowder affects the flight duration ."
    Any Firework Star + Paper + Gunpowder,"[[None, None, None], ['Firework Star', 'Paper', ''], ['', 'Gunpowder', None]]",Adding more gunpowder increases the duration of the rocket. Up to three gunpowder can be used. Up to five firework stars can also be used with three gunpowder. Up to seven firework stars can be used by using firework stars instead of additional gunpowder. All firework stars explode almost simultaneously when the rocket detonates.

Usage
  Launching fireworks
    To launch a firework rocket, use its item on a block. They can also be launched from dispensers and crossbows. If shot from a Multishot crossbow, then 3 rockets fire with the same effects.

  Dispenser
    A firework rocket can be launched using a dispenser. The direction the dispenser is facing shoots the firework in that direction.

  Elytra
    Using a firework rocket while flying with elytra propels the player in the direction they are facing. The duration of the speed boost depends on the flight duration of the rocket. If the rocket is equipped with a firework star of any kind, the player takes damage when it explodes.

  Crossbow
    A firework rocket can be used as ammunition for crossbows, although it deals damage only if it has an explosion effect. A higher flight duration gives the firework rocket a longer range, and more damage is added per firework star. The Piercing enchantment has no effect on firework rockets shot from a crossbow. In Java Edition, if a firework rocket shot from a crossbow hits an entity, the rocket instantly explodes, no matter the flight duration. Attempting to do this in Bedrock Edition, however, results in the firework passing through the entity,[1] so the player must plan where to aim.

Behavior
    Once launched, fireworks fly out vertically, with random horizontal offset up to 5 blocks. In Bedrock and Java editions, fireworks can fly in any of the 6 directions a dispenser can point. After some time, the firework explodes into a colorful explosion based on the effects of the firework stars added upon crafting, or no explosion if no firework star was used. If multiple firework stars were added to the rocket upon crafting, they all explode simultaneously. The explosion of a firework rocket deals damage to mobs and players that are within 5 blocks and not obstructed by solid blocks. The maximum damage of a rocket with one firework star is 7, with the damage decreasing with distance. Each additional firework star on the rocket adds 2 points of damage, for a maximum damage of 19 × 9.5 with 7 stars. Using commands to add additional firework stars results in more damage. The damage dealt is unaffected by any other ingredients used. The explosion does not destroy end crystals nor damage the Ender dragon, but does destroy armor stands. There is a delay between the detonation and the player hearing the sound, emulating real fireworks, but this sound travels much more slowly than in the real world.[2][3] In Java Edition, the explosion of a firework can be seen 64 blocks away, regardless of its height. In Bedrock Edition, the explosion can be seen from the player's render distance. If the explosion exceeds the (unmodded) particle limit of 16,384, the oldest particles are removed before displaying new ones, resulting in severely diminished firework quality / duration. At most a firework should have 3 trail stars, more than that could waste diamonds, firework stars, and other fireworks. Particle counts per star are:

    Ball Type,Plain,Trail
    Small,98,~1300
    Large,387,4000+
    Star,122,~1600
    Creeper,266,~3500
    Burst,72,~930

    Twinkle effect adds 2 particles to the count. Like most other entities, they can be moved by water and explosions, and teleported via portals. They also cannot move through solid surfaced blocks, upon hitting one, they either move to a side or explode based on the duration. If a firework explodes under a block, its explosion is flattened.

  Duration and direction
    Fireworks travel different heights based on the amount of gunpowder added. The number is displayed as a tag on the item's tooltip with the description of "Flight Duration". Each firework determines its lifetime in ticks by 10 × (number of gunpowder + 1) + random value from 0 to 5 + random value from 0 to 6, after which it explodes. When spawned by player or command, the height it rises is between 8 and 20 blocks with 1 gunpowder, 18 to 34 blocks with 2 gunpowder, and 32 to 52 blocks with 3 gunpowder. 
(Note: Using command blocks, firework rockets with higher durations go higher and keep accelerating with virtually no terminal velocity. If the duration is long enough, the firework rocket could reach heights of over 1,000,000 blocks and speeds of over 10,000 m/s in a matter of minutes. Such fireworks with significant X and Z motions speed up sideways exponentially and reach outside the world boundary in a matter of seconds.‌[Java Edition  only]) When spawned,  fireworks have a vertical speed of .05 and a random small X and Z speed (random value near zero with a standard deviation of .001). Each tick, the firework accelerates horizontally by multiplying its X and Z velocities by 1.15, and vertically by adding a constant factor of 0.04. When shot from a dispenser, it travels 9 to 10 blocks with 1 gunpowder, 14 to 15 blocks with 2 gunpowder, and 19 to 20 blocks with 3 gunpowder in the direction it was dispensed. When dispensed, the firework has a random velocity close to 0.5 (with a maximum deviation of .009) in the direction it was dispensed and a random small velocity in both other directions (random value near zero with a maximum deviation of .009). The fireworks velocity does not change over the lifetime of the rocket. Fireworks can be made to travel different directions by being dispensed or launched under flowing water. The firework's direction combines with the flow of the water to go diagonally.

Village Raids
    After successfully defending a village from a Raid the villagers may celebrate by setting off firework rockets.

Boosting elytra
    Fireworks can be used to boost elytra when in flight. Normally, elytra can glide for a short distance, but with the use of fireworks, the player can fly a long distance, gain speed, and take off from the ground. Simply using the firework rocket with elytra spread boosts the player in the direction the player faces. It can leave behind a trail sometimes. Although fireworks with firework stars can be used, the player takes blast damage if they use it in flight. There are four types of rockets, with three types of flight duration. Higher flight durations mean longer boosts. In Bedrock Edition, the fireworks obtained from the Creative menu have a flight duration of 1, while in Java Edition, the fireworks obtained in the Creative menu have a flight duration of 1, 2, or 3.

    Firework flight duration,Elytra flight boost duration,Boost amount per gunpowder
    1,~1.17 seconds,100%
    2,~1.48 seconds,120%
    3,~2.22 seconds,128%

    [4]

