Overview
    A water bucket is a bucket filled with water.

Obtaining
  Interacting
    To fill an empty bucket with water, use it on a water source block. The water is consumed in the process. Flowing water does not fill a bucket. Using an empty bucket on a cauldron filled with water (water level 3) empties the cauldron and fills the bucket. Water buckets can also be filled by placing an empty one in the fuel slot of a furnace, and a wet sponge into the oven slot. The bucket is filled when the smelting process completes, which also leaves the sponge dry and ready to be reused.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Water Bucket,Village,Fisherman's chest,1–3,"24.2% { ""item"": ""Water Bucket"", ""stacksize"": ""1–3"", ""chance"": 0.2418426461183103, ""structure"": ""Village"", ""container"": ""Fisherman's chest"" }"
    Upcoming Java Edition
    Water Bucket,Trial Chambers,Water dispenser,1,"100% { ""item"": ""Water Bucket"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 1, ""structure"": ""Trial Chambers"", ""container"": ""Water dispenser"" }"
    Chamber dispenser,1,"13.8% { ""item"": ""Water Bucket"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.13793103448275867, ""structure"": ""Trial Chambers"", ""container"": ""Chamber dispenser"" }"

Usage
    Using a water bucket on a solid block places a water source block against that block, emptying the bucket; using a water bucket on a waterloggable block waterlogs the block. In the Nether, however, the water evaporates, making a fire extinguishing sound and displays smoke particles while nothing gets placed.

  Dispensers
    A dispenser can be loaded with a water bucket, and when activated it places a water block directly before it, emptying the bucket. A dispenser loaded with an empty bucket and a water source right in front of it draws the source into the bucket when activated.

  Cauldrons
    A single water bucket can fill a cauldron, and using an empty bucket on a water-filled cauldron fills the bucket. Empty buckets cannot be filled from partly-filled cauldrons.

  Filling bucket with mobs
    Water buckets can be used on a fish, axolotl or tadpole to create a bucket of aquatic mob.

  Transportation
    Water buckets can be used as a means of quickly descending great heights in the Overworld and the End, either by creating a waterfall or using the water bucket while falling to create a safe water landing. Water buckets can also be used to climb vertical surfaces anywhere but the Nether by repeatedly creating higher waterfalls from the bottom and swimming up them.

