Overview
    Unfortunately, there are many dangerous and scary things out there in the Minecraft world that would like to kill you. So here are a few ways to fortify your home and prevent that from happening.

Environmental
  Lava and water
    When you extend your base, be sure that nothing fragile like torches or redstone circuits are on the floor in the area. If you strike a water source, it can wash such things away. If you are unlucky, you yourself can also be swept away (maybe into something dangerous) or drown. If you wish to be extra careful, you can place slabs around any redstone circuits you do not want to be accidentally flooded, as slabs block the flow of water. Lava flows slower, but is much more hazardous, as it sets you and your wooden items on fire.

  Sand and gravel
    "Built on sand" is a real life saying which means "This won’t last long". This is true in Minecraft, too. Not only are sand and gravel subject to falls or cave-ins due to obeying gravity, but they also have less resistance to explosions than other materials. Additionally, both of these block types have sufficient other uses (such as sand for glass and gravel for flint, concrete or coarse dirt) that it is best to use them for those, rather than as a construction base. If you have a floor of sand or gravel, be careful when mining — digging near sand that isn't supported from below WILL cause it to collapse. Be wary of placing torches on sand columns which may fall. If such a torch is destroyed, you may find a creeper or other mob which spawned in the darkness. If you discover a natural cave with a roof of sand or gravel, be extra careful. Even if you don’t choose it to become your new home, as soon as you place or remove a block near it, the loose sand or gravel will suddenly be affected by gravity and fall down, suffocating you, flooding the cave with lava or water and/or allowing mobs to come in from the dark cave/night above. In the same manner that sand or gravel makes a poor choice for flooring or a foundation, obsidian is particularly good, due to its high explosion resistance. While it is unlikely that you will be able to produce enough obsidian to build entire walls or floors out of it, it can still be used for foundations, wall trim, and entrance frames. If you are indeed going to use a large amount of obsidian, you may wish to see Tutorials/Obsidian farming.

Mobs
  General
    Don't build out of wood. Yes, it looks nice, but it is fragile to explosions, flammable, and vastly more labor-intensive to produce as a building material, than other blocks. If you must use it, build three block thick walls, with a cobblestone core, and a wood facade as the outer two. If you are in multiplayer, someone could burn your house., For general construction, cobblestone is ideal. It is easily obtainable, (via either mining or a cobblestone generator with lava and water, which can be constructed in the vanilla game) is non-flammable and impervious to ghast fire, and also has a decent resistance to explosions. Nether and stone brick are somewhat less plentiful, but more aesthetically pleasing alternatives, with the same defensive advantages as cobblestone. Obsidian is also an ideal choice, as it can resist explosions like TNT or creepers. However, obsidian is hard to find and pick up, as it requires a diamond or netherite pickaxe and lava, and is not very aesthetically pleasing., Mines and underground passageways should be no wider than two blocks, to discourage mob spawning. Torches should also be placed at four block intervals., Use a fence or a wall to keep all mobs except spiders and spider jockeys off your lawn. Though to keep spiders and spider jockeys out, just ring the top of your house with any block., You can create iron golems to defend your territory. These metal wonders will deal lots of damage to any mobs that come near it. They can be very useful for defending small houses. Beware of the creeper though! Iron golems will not attack creepers., Use a cactus fence built from two rows of cacti (like this: 

    ,cactus top,,cactus top
    cactus top,,cactus top,

    (Note: The cactus has to be on sand. Under the sand, place a blast resistant block like obsidian. If you mine below it, the obsidian warns you not to dig up or an alternating row of cacti and flames from netherrack to keep mobs from passing through it.) Build a ditch deep enough that the mobs who fall in can’t get out anymore, which is either filled with lava or streaming water leading to a Mob Farm., Keep your home area well lit. Mobs only spawn if the light level is below 8; remember that a torch provides level 14 light and this decreases by one for every block away from the torch. Lit netherrack works well, since it doubles as both a light source, and a means of setting mobs on fire, although there is also the risk of setting yourself on fire. So if you do want use this method, bring a bucket of water., Another way to keep mobs out of your house is a staircase that has an overhang., If you are in single player, a door made of pistons keeps you hidden from mobs almost all the time. Place 2 pistons facing the outside. Then, place a lever right next to both of the pistons backs. Next, turn off the pistons, go outside, then make an arch around the spot where the pistons would stick out. Finally, where the pistons would stick out on the sides make a tunnel to your base. Make sure you can walk through it. When the pistons come out, the mobs can't enter, and skeletons can't reach through your door. Another good way to protect yourself from most Overworld mobs is to create a long hall with a lava floodgate to burn mobs. This can be done with both pistons, or dispensers containing lava buckets. This will not work on Nether mobs., Mobs cannot spawn on stairs or bottom-half slabs. Make roofs, catwalks, and even floors out of these to prevent mobs from spawning there., Elevate your base and use ladders to reach the entrance. Mobs (except spiders) cannot climb ladders.

  Creepers
    Widely considered to be the most dangerous mob(except the bosses) in Minecraft is the creeper, because of the damage it causes to buildings (they can effectively blow large holes in your structures). However, you are safe within your base if there are creepers outside, as they can't get close enough to you to explode. You might even be able to open your door and kill the creeper with a bow and arrows, as long as you keep your distance! Also, be aware that creepers can detect you and start their fuse from one block away, even if there is a low wall or fence keeping them away. Ways to avoid this are: build a wall at least two full blocks tall (even if it is made of certain translucent blocks such as slabs, fence or glass); or build your home with all spawning surfaces on all traversable paths sufficiently lit. Different blocks have different resistances to explosions. Dirt walls will be easily destroyed by creepers, while two block thick cobblestone will resist most creeper explosions. Obsidian is explosion-proof with the exception of blue wither skulls, so you can laugh in the face of creepers trying to destroy walls built of this block. Cats are also a good defense, as creepers will run away if they are in a short distance of one. Even if you've attacked the creeper, it will run away as long as there is a cat nearby, so it is a good idea to put cats around your base.

  Spiders
    Spiders can jump 3 blocks, therefore 4 block wide ditches with over hangs won't protect you against spiders/spider jockeys.
Spiders are two blocks wide, which means they cannot move through 1-block wide spaces. Spiders can also climb walls and fences, so you won’t be safe in your walled garden anymore. To effectively spider-proof your buildings, you’ll have to do one of these things:

