Overview
    Coral fans are non-solid blocks that come in 5 variants: tube, brain, bubble, fire, and horn. Dead coral fans are the dead variants of coral fans.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Coral fans and their dead variants can be mined instantly but can be obtained only when mined with a Silk Touch enchanted tool. Breaking coral fans without Silk Touch destroys the coral fan. Dead coral fans can only be obtained with a Silk Touch pickaxe.[1]

    Block,Coral Fan
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Coral fans and dead coral fans‌[Bedrock Edition  only] naturally generate in coral reef structures.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is used in warm ocean biomes, it has a chance of generating coral fans (this does not work in Bedrock Edition, due to MCPE-171383). In order for coral fans to stay alive, they must be placed in water. In Java Edition, coral fans can also be placed outside of water as long as one of the blocks surrounding it contains water. If placed outside of water, they transform into their respective dead coral fan immediately‌[Bedrock Edition  only] or after a few seconds‌[Java Edition  only].

  Wall Coral Fans
    Wall coral fans cannot be obtained through vanilla means. In Java Edition, they are completely unobtainable, but in Bedrock Edition, they can be obtained through add-ons or inventory editing, though the item form is badly glitched to the point of being completely nameless.

Usage
    Coral fans and dead coral fans can be used for building or as decoration blocks.

  Placement
    All coral fans (and their dead variants) can be placed on the four sides and the top surface of blocks; they cannot be placed on the bottom surface.

  Pushing with pistons
    Live coral fans cannot be pushed by pistons (attempting to do so results in the coral fan breaking). Dead coral fans can be pushed by pistons as long as they will still be "supported" in the new position (not floating).

