Overview
    A wither skeleton skull is a block modeled after the head of a wither skeleton.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A wither skeleton skull can be mined using any item,[1] and drops itself when broken.

    Block,Wither Skeleton Skull
    Hardness,1
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,1.5

    If a wither skeleton skull is pushed by a piston or comes in contact with water or lava, it breaks off as an item. When destroyed by an explosion, the wither skeleton skull always drops as an item.

  Mob loot
    A wither skeleton has a 2.5% chance of dropping a wither skeleton skull when killed by a player or a tamed wolf. The chance is increased by 1% per level of Looting, for a maximum of 5.5% with Looting III. In Bedrock Edition, the chance is increased by 2% per level of Looting, for a maximum of 8.5% with Looting III. A wither skeleton skull is always dropped by a wither skeleton if it dies due to a charged creeper's explosion. In Bedrock Edition, if multiple mobs are killed by the same charged creeper, all of them drop their heads, however in Java Edition only one mob selected at random drops its head.[2]

Usage
  Decoration
    Wither skeleton skulls can be oriented in 16 different directions on top of a block, and 4 directions on the sides of blocks, similar to signs. They can be placed on top of, or beside each other by shift clicking.

  Wearing
    The player can wear wither skeleton skulls, similarly to pumpkins or helmets. This overlays the second layer of the player's skin. Unlike other heads and skulls, wearing a wither skeleton skull does not reduces the detection range for wither skeletons. In Bedrock Edition, wearing a wither skeleton skull makes the player invisible to other players on a locator map.

  Withers
    Withers can be spawned by placing soul sand or soul soil in a T shape, and putting 3 wither skeleton skulls on top of the T. The T can be horizontal or vertical. The last block placed must be one of the three wither skeleton skulls. A dispenser can also create a wither, by placing the final wither skeleton skull onto soul sand directly in front of and below it.

  Dispensers
    A dispenser can equip a wither skeleton skull on a player, mob, or armor stand with an empty helmet slot, within the block the dispenser is facing. Dispensers can also complete the construction of a wither.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Banner Pattern Skull,Paper + Wither Skeleton Skull,"[[None, None, None], ['Paper', '', None], [None, None, None]]"
    Firework Star,Wither Skeleton Skull + Gunpowder + Any Dye,"[[None, None, None], ['Gunpowder', '', None], [None, 'White Dye', None]]"

  Enchantments
    Wither skeleton skulls can receive the following enchantments, but only through an anvil.

    Name,Max Level,Method
    Curse of Binding,I,
    Curse of Vanishing,I,

  Note blocks
    Placing a wither skeleton skull above a note block causes the note block to play the wither skeleton's ambient sound when activated. The block below the note block does not affect the mob sound it creates.

