Overview
    A blaze is a hostile mob found in nether fortresses, and the only source of blaze rods. When attacking something, a blaze floats upwards and shoots fireballs at its target in volleys of three at a time. It can also attack its target in melee range with its spinning rods.[1]

Spawning
    Blazes may spawn naturally in nether fortresses in groups of 2 or 3 at a light level of 11 or less. Blazes may also spawn from monster spawners in nether fortresses. The spawners are located on small platforms with a three-block staircase leading up to it.

Drops
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Blaze Rod,100% [d 1],0–1,0–2,0–3,0–4

    10 experience orbs are dropped if killed by a player or tamed wolf.

Behavior
    Blazes are immune to damage from fire and lava, and fly, although when not attacking they stay on the ground or sink down slowly through the air. Blazes attempt to swim upward in lava or water. Blazes fall through lava and water when idle. Despite taking damage from water, blazes make no attempt to protect themselves if pushed or dropped into water. Their pathfinding does not avoid fire or lava‌[Java Edition  only] but does avoid water. They take 5 freezing damage from powder snow. Blazes are also hurt by snowballs, taking 3 damage per hit. It takes seven snowballs to kill a blaze. They are also damaged by splash water bottles, taking 1 damage per hit. Like endermen, blazes are also damaged by rain by 1 every half second.

  Attacking
    Blazes target players within 48 blocks. If a blaze is damaged by a player or other mob, it alerts other blazes within 48 blocks to target the attacker.‌[Java Edition  only] A blaze flies when it acquires a target, slowly approaching while attempting to remain from 0.5 to 3.5 blocks above the target. A blaze's normal attack is a trio of small fireballs, shot from up to 48 blocks‌[Java Edition  only] or 16 blocks.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] A blaze shoots only when it has a clear line of sight to its target. If line of sight is broken in the middle of its volley, the blaze suspends the remainder of its volley until line of sight returns. When using this attack, the blaze burns with fire for 3 seconds, shoots three small fireballs over the course of 0.9 seconds, then extinguishes its flames and waits for 5 seconds before attacking again. A blaze shoots its small fireballs with roughly the same lack of accuracy as a dispenser; however, the blaze's shots maintain the same speed all the way to the target, unlike the dispenser's, which start slow and accelerate. A blaze that touches its target performs a melee attack that does 6 damage on normal difficulty, once per second. This attack is not considered fire damage and does not ignite the target. This cannot be prevented by the Fire Resistance status effect.

