Overview
    A creeper is a common hostile mob that silently approaches players and then explodes, which can destroy blocks and kill unarmored players on any difficulty (except for peaceful). When struck by lightning, a creeper becomes a charged creeper, which amplifies its explosion power and enables mob heads to be obtained from piglins‌, zombies, skeletons and other creepers it kills. Due to its distinctive appearance and unique and destructive method of attack, the creeper has become one of the most iconic mobs of Minecraft, being featured in promotional material and merchandise.

Spawning
    Creepers naturally spawn in the Overworld on solid blocks with a light level of 0, except in mushroom fields and deep dark biomes. They spawn individually in Bedrock Edition and in groups of up to four in Java Edition. In Bedrock Edition, there is a density limit of five creepers in the Overworld's surface.

Drops
  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Gunpowder,100%,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Music Disc [d 1],100% [d 2],1,1,1,1
    ,Creeper Head,100% [d 3],1,1,1,1

Behavior
    Creepers chase any player within a 16-block radius. They do not attack any other mob without provocation by being attacked first. When within 3 blocks of a player, a creeper stops moving, hisses, flashes and expands, and explodes after 1.5 seconds (30 ticks), destroying (and dropping as items) blocks in the area as well as significantly damaging the player. A creeper's detonation can be halted if the player leaves the blast radius, including by knocking it back, going out of the creeper's sight, or if the creeper is killed before the explosion. Assuming the player stays within line of sight, the distance that the player must move in order for a creeper cancel its explosion is 7 blocks, regardless of difficulty. Normal creeper explosions have a power of 3. In Java Edition, the if the game rule mobExplosionDropDecay is set to false, blocks have a 100% chance of dropping as items instead of being destroyed. A creeper explodes only if it has an uninterrupted line of sight with the player throughout the entire 1.5-second countdown. As a result, if the creeper does not have line-of-sight with the player, it does not start hissing even at close range, even if the player is attacking it, and a detonation is canceled if it has started. The hissing sound plays in its entirety regardless of whether the explosion happens or not. Unlike most mobs, the creeper does not have an idle sound, nor does it have unique step sounds. Although it does make normal stepping and swimming sounds, it is hard for players to distinguish those from sounds they make themselves. This makes the approach of a creeper difficult for an unwary player to notice until it starts hissing. A creeper jumps down to a player if it can survive the fall. A creeper taking fall damage adds to its swell according to fallDistance * 1.5, up to a maximum of 5 less than the fuse of the creeper. The creeper explodes when the swell equals the fuse, so an explosion occurs soon after landing with higher falls. For example, a creeper falling from greater than 16 blocks can explode 5 ticks after it lands. Creepers can climb up ladders, vines, and similar blocks like any other mob, but do not do so intentionally. Using a flint and steel or fire charge‌[Java Edition  only] on a creeper forces an explosion. The detection range of creepers is reduced by 50% when the player is wearing a creeper head.‌[JE  only] Creepers flee from ocelots and cats within a 6-block radius, with faster movement than when pursuing a player. Cats and ocelots do not attack creepers. A creeper that has begun a detonation does not flee unless the player leaves its blast radius. Creepers are not targeted by tamed wolves, iron golems or zoglins. However, they are still attacked by withers, snow golems,[1] vindicators named "Johnny", wardens and goats. When hit by a stray projectile (like a drowned's trident), a creeper retaliates if not already chasing a player, unless said projectile is a skeleton's arrow. When attacked by a goat, or poisoned by a pufferfish, a creeper does not retaliate. If a creeper is attacked by any other mob, the creeper moves toward the mob that attacked it and explodes. When a creeper is inflicted with a status effect, its explosion creates an area effect cloud of the effect.‌[JE  only]

  Charged creeper
     A charged creeper has a significantly increased explosion power. A charged creeper is created only when lightning strikes within four blocks of a normal creeper. The lightning can be created in any way, including naturally, with the /summon command, by a trident with the Channeling enchantment, or attracted to a lightning rod. Charged creepers are distinguished from normal creepers by their blue aura surrounding them. In Java Edition, a charged creeper can be summoned with the following command: /summon creeper ~ ~ ~ {powered:1} In Bedrock Edition, a charged creeper can be summoned by: /summon creeper ~ ~ ~ minecraft:become_charged Their countdown timers are the same as normal creepers, both in terms of range and time. With a power of 6, an explosion caused by a charged creeper is twice as powerful as the explosion caused by a creeper. Charged creepers' explosions are 50% more powerful than an explosion of TNT. How close the creeper was to the lightning strike does not affect the size or power of the explosion. Charged creepers have the same entity ID as normal creepers. The only difference is that the value of the boolean powered tag is set to 1 (true). In Java Edition, a charged creeper explosion that kills zombies, skeletons, wither skeletons, piglins, or other creepers causes one[2] of those mobs to drop its corresponding mob head. If multiple valid mobs are killed in the explosion, the one that drops a head is chosen at random. In Bedrock Edition, a charged creeper explosion that kills zombies, skeletons, wither skeletons, or other creepers causes all the killed mobs to drop their corresponding heads. A charged creeper does not drop its own head when it explodes, although any other charged creepers or creepers killed in the explosion drop a creeper head. Players and ender dragons do not drop their heads,[3] nor do mobs without corresponding mob heads, such as livestock animals.

  Farming
