Overview
    Ravagers are large hostile mobs that only spawn alongside illagers in raids. They attack players, adult villagers, wandering traders and iron golems by running at them and biting them. They can be briefly stunned by being blocked with a shield, but after recovering they roar, damaging and knocking away all nearby entities.

Spawning
  Raids
    Ravagers spawn starting at wave 3 as part of a raid. Unridden ravagers spawn at wave 3, a ravager ridden by a pillager spawns at wave 5, and two ravagers - one ridden by a vindicator and one by an evoker - spawn at wave 7. If raid has and extra wave, another ravager or two can spawn at it as well. Up to 5 ravagers spawn as part of a raid. Unridden ravagers spawn at waves 3 and 5, a ravager ridden by a pillager spawns at waves 5 and 7, and a ravager ridden by an evoker spawns at wave 7. Ravagers can be summoned with riders by using spawn event commands:  /summon ravager ~ ~ ~ minecraft:spawn_with_pillager_rider.

Drops
  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Saddle,100%,1,1,1,1

    Ravagers, as well as piglin brutes, drop the most amount of experience orbs out of all non-boss entities.

Behavior
    Ravagers are hostile toward players, iron golems, adult villagers, and wandering traders within a 32-block radius. They attack by ramming enemies with their head, dealing a knockback of 5 blocks. Ravagers also attack by opening and closing their mouths, similar to biting their target. When ravagers see a villager and an iron golem together, they always prioritize villagers unless they are already attacking an iron golem. They can also destroy certain block types by charging into them. In Java Edition, ravagers can only break leaves and crops. In Bedrock Edition, they can break leaves, all crops, any other non-tree plants, mushrooms, and turtle eggs. Here is a complete list:

    Block,Bedrock Edition,Java Edition
    Bamboo,Yes,No
    Bamboo Sapling,Yes,No
    Beetroots,Yes,Yes
    Brown Mushroom,Yes,No
    Carrots,Yes,Yes
    Carved Pumpkin,Yes,No
    Chorus Flower,Yes,No
    Chorus Plant,Yes,No
    Dead Bush,Yes,No
    Fern Unused variant,N/A,Yes
    Fern Unused variant,N/A,Yes
    Sunflower,Yes,No
    Lilac,Yes,No
    Peony,Yes,No
    Rose Bush,Yes,No
    Large Fern,Yes,No
    Tall Grass,Yes,No
    Leaves,Yes,Yes
    Azalea Leaves,Yes,Yes
    Flowering Azalea Leaves,Yes,Yes
    Flower except wither rose and Torchflower,Yes,No
    Grass,Yes,No
    Jack o'Lantern,Yes,No
    Melon,Yes,No
    Melon Stem,Yes,No
    Attached Melon Stem,Yes,No
    Potatoes,Yes,No
    Pumpkin,Yes,No
    Attached Pumpkin Stem,Yes,No
    Pumpkin Stem,Yes,No
    Red Mushroom,Yes,No
    Sugar Cane,Yes,No
    Saplings except Cherry Sapling and Mangrove Propagule,Yes,No
    Snow,Yes,No
    Sweet Berry Bush,Yes,No
    Turtle Egg,Yes,No
    Vines,Yes,No
    Lily Pad,Yes,No
    Wheat,Yes,Yes
    Crimson Fungus,Yes,No
    Warped Fungus,Yes,No
    Hanging Roots,Yes,No
    Cave Vines,Yes,No
    Cave Vines Plant,Yes,No
    Azalea,Yes,No
    Small Dripleaf,Yes,No
    Big Dripleaf,Yes,No
    Big Dripleaf Stem,Yes,No
    Spore Blossom,Yes,No
    Torchflower Crop,No,Yes
    Pitcher Crop,No,Yes

    Although ravagers are equipped with saddles, they cannot be ridden by the player. Ravagers naturally appear ridden by an illager. However, another mob can be allowed to ride a ravager using the /ride command. In Bedrock Edition ravagers have delayed hits hit_delay_pct: 0.5. When set to 0.0, ravager hits wouldn't be delayed to match Java Edition. When its bite attack is blocked by a shield, no damage is dealt and knockback is halved. A ravager also has a 50% chance to become stunned and unable to move or attack for 2 seconds. After this period, it opens its mouth and roars, dealing 6 damage and a knockback of 5 blocks to nearby entities. The roar knocks back nearby illagers without damaging them and has no effect on other ravagers (note that vexes and witches are not treated as illagers and take both damage and knockback). Illagers knocked back by a ravager's roar can still take fall damage. Ravagers do not attack pillagers who shoot at them by accident, and do not attack evokers when evoker fangs accidentally hit them. When a vindicator riding a ravager has been named "Johnny" it may attack the ravager while it is riding it, but the ravager does not attack the vindicator for any reason. When a ravager gets shot by a mob that battles with a projectile while it is attacking the player, the ravager first attempts to kill who shot it, then goes back to attacking the player once the deed is done. Any mob that doesn't battle with projectiles requires a ravagers to roar in order to aggro on it. In Java Edition, a ravager who gets attacked by a mob (excluding illagers or goats) or player alerts other ravagers to target the attacker unless the ravager was killed in one hit. Ravagers take 75% less of knockback, but they still float in water. A ravager being ridden dismounts its rider if it moves into water two blocks deep. Riders cannot mount ravagers again after being dismounted. In Java Edition, any ravager can join a patrol if sufficiently near a patrol captain.

