Overview
    A skeleton horse is an undead variant of the horse. It sometimes spawns when lightning strikes, causing four horsemen to appear if the trap horse is approached.

Spawning
    A “skeleton trap horse” is a defensive skeleton horse spawned from a fraction of lightning generated naturally by a thunderstorm (0.75–1.5% chance on Easy, 1.5–4% on Normal, and 2.25–6.75% on Hard, depending on regional difficulty). In Java Edition, the lightning that spawns a trap horse doesn't strike nearby entities or spawn fires. Lightning strikes caused by a Channeling-enchanted trident and lightning strikes on a lightning rod never spawn a skeleton trap horse. The trap horse despawns after 15 minutes if not triggered. The skeleton trap horse is triggered when a player comes within 10 blocks of it, resulting in a lightning strike that does not start fires or damage nearby entities. When struck, the skeleton trap horse transforms into a skeleton horseman: a skeleton riding a skeleton horse. It also spawns three additional skeleton horsemen in the vicinity. The skeleton will be equipped with an enchanted iron helmet and an enchanted bow. In Java Edition both the horse and horseman have damage immunity for 3 seconds after spawning. In Bedrock Edition, both the horse and horseman are always immune to lightning. Trap skeleton horse can be spawned in Java Edition using the command /summon skeleton_horse ~ ~ ~ {SkeletonTrap:1}, or in Bedrock Edition using the command /summon skeleton_horse ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ minecraft:set_trap.

Drops
  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Bone,100%,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5

    If saddled, it drops a saddle.‌[Java Edition  only] Killing a baby skeleton horse yields no items or experience. In Bedrock Edition, killing a trap skeleton horse also yields no items or experience.

Usage
    Skeleton horses can be ridden by one player, as a normal horse, and are one of fastest means of transportation in the game. When ridden, they can also be used to climb hills and jump fences because the skeleton horses can jump up to five block heights, versus the player's maximum of one (without jump boost). They can be ridden in water in any depth. Skeleton horses sink in the water and can be ridden along the ocean or river floor. Skeleton horses can be pulled or tethered with a lead.

  Equipment
    Java Edition Skeleton horses have the following slot available: Saddles can be placed on a tamed skeleton horse by holding it and then using on the skeleton horse, or by accessing its inventory. A skeleton horse’s inventory can be accessed by mounting the skeleton horse and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using on the skeleton horse. Baby skeleton horses cannot be equipped. Bedrock Edition A skeleton horse does not have an inventory and cannot be equipped with a saddle or armor. Despite this, the default texture file, like those of normal horses, donkeys and mules, includes a chest.

  Riding
    In Bedrock Edition, skeleton horses can be controlled by the player without a saddle. However, in Java Edition, skeleton horses can be equipped with a saddle and then controlled. Like riding other entities, it is impossible for a player to use a nether portal or end portal while on a skeleton horse. The player can control a tamed (and saddled Java Edition) skeleton horse with standard directional controls, jump, and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control. A player controlled skeleton horse automatically runs up any one block high slope. The skeleton horse and rider can safely fit through a space as low as 2.75 blocks high. Lower clearance risks suffocating the rider if the rider's head enters a non-transparent block. The horse itself can enter gaps as low as 1.625 blocks high, but may itself take suffocation damage when clearance is less than 1.75 blocks. Skeleton horses cannot fit through a 1-block-wide gap. Player controlled skeleton horses have the ability of "jumping charging". When the player rides them, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by jumping charging bar. A controlled skeleton horses can be made to jump and holding the control charges for a higher leap. Skeleton horses are not affected by jump boost beacons or potions. Unlike normal horses, a skeleton horse does not force the player to dismount when it is under water; rather, it can be ridden underwater without drowning. The player can still drown underwater without the proper potions or enchantments, even when mounted on the skeleton horse. When underwater, its running speed and jump remain the same although it has a slower rate of descent.

Behavior
    The skeleton horse is an undead mob that is initially defensive when it spawn and will trigger a skeleton trap horse if the player gets too close, but once the skeleton rider is defeated, the skeleton horses become completely passive. Skeleton horses behave like normal horses, roaming idly and occasionally stopping to rear, swish their tails, or lower their heads as though eating the grass. Unlike sheep, the eating animation does not actually cause any grass to be consumed. Skeleton horses can breathe in water. Unlike other passive mobs, skeleton horses slowly regenerate health evident by their health bar while the player rides it. This is the same case for normal horses. Skeleton horses cannot be bred or fed. Skeleton horses, in common with other undead mobs, take damage when affected by a Potion of Healing and are healed by a Potion of Harming. They are also affected by the Smite enchantment. Other notes:

Statistics
    All horses have three "equine stats" that vary from horse to horse: health, maximum movement speed, and jump strength. These stats are created once the horse is born or spawned, and are not affected by food.

  Spawned values
    When spawned in any way except breeding – for instance, using commands, spawning naturally, spawning as part of a skeleton trap, or using spawn eggs – horses are assigned their stats within certain ranges, specific according to their horse type. A skeleton horse's health is always 15. Displayed hearts are health, divided by two, rounded down. A horse with an odd number of health points (15, 17, 19, etc.) does not show the last half-heart. If the horse has lost one health point lower than the inflicted damage and did not regenerate, it has an odd number of health points, otherwise, it has an even number of health points. Skeleton horse's speed is always 0.2;
the player's normal walking speed is 0.1. The speed listed does not include any status effect that affects the speed of a horse or a player. See transportation to compare the speeds of various transportation methods. Jump strength ranges from 0.4–1.0, averaging 0.7. A jump strength of 0.5 is enough to clear 1 19⁄32 blocks, while 1.0 is enough to clear 5 9⁄32 blocks. The jump strengths required to clear several block heights are:

    Jump Strength,Blocks
    0.967,5.00
    0.848,4.00
    0.716,3.00
    0.565,2.00
    0.431,1.25 (player's jump height)

