Overview
    Slimes are bouncy, cube-shaped hostile mobs that spawn deep underground in particular chunks, or on the surface in swamp biomes. They attack by jumping at their targets, come in three sizes, and larger slimes can split into smaller ones on death.

Spawning
    Slimes spawn in the Overworld in specific "slime chunks" below layer 40, regardless of light levels. They can also spawn in swamp biomes between layers 51 and 69 (inclusive) in light levels of 7 or less, with these layers tending to be near the surface. Slimes spawn regardless of weather conditions. Only sizes 1, 2, and 4 (NBT Size tag values 0, 1 and 3 respectively) spawn naturally. With use of /summon, slimes can potentially range from size 1 to 127 (NBT Size tag 0–126).[verify] Like most other hostile mobs, slimes do not spawn within 24 blocks (spherical) of any player, despawn over time if no player is within 32 blocks, and despawn instantly if no player is within the despawn radius (128 blocks in Java Edition, 44 to 128 blocks in Bedrock Edition depending on simulation distance[verify]). A slime needs roughly a 3×2.1×3 free space to spawn. The area in which the slime spawns must be clear of solid or liquid obstructions. When a slime attempts to spawn, the game checks for the space requirement of a large slime, and the size is determined later. Therefore, since large slimes are slightly taller than 2 blocks, no slimes, regardless of size, are able to spawn at all in 2-block-high areas. Also, since large slimes are slightly wider than 2 blocks, and mobs spawn at the center of a block, having any block within the 3×2.1×3 area, even as thin as a glass pane, can prevent a slime of any size from spawning. Slime size is affected by regional difficulty: chances range from 33% for each size at the low difficulty to 16% small, 33% medium, and 50% big with higher difficulty.

  Swamps
    In swamps and mangrove swamps, slimes may spawn between the heights of 51 and 69 (inclusive) when the provided light level is 7 or less. They spawn most often on a full moon, and never on a new moon. More precisely, the game checks two factors: If these conditions are met and the altitude is acceptable, there is a 50% chance of spawning a slime. The light level requirement for slime spawning in swamps is different from that of most hostile mobs, which spawn only at light level 0.[1]

  "Slime chunks"
     Slimes spawn throughout the world (except mushroom fields and deep dark biomes) below level Y=40 regardless of light level, but only in certain chunks; 1⁄10 of all chunks. In Java Edition, these "slime chunks" are determined pseudo-randomly by combining their chunk coordinates with the seed of the world: That is, using the chunk coordinates to help generate a seed, a random number between 0 and 9 inclusive is generated. If that number is 0, the chunk can spawn slimes. To convert world coordinates to chunk coordinates, divide by 16 and round down. Note that xPosition, and zPosition are 32-bit integers (ints). The slime chunk algorithm in Bedrock Edition is different from in Java Edition. The algorithm doesn't depend on the world seed, thus the chunks that slimes can naturally spawn in inhabit the same coordinates for every world.[2]

  Trial spawners
    ‌In Java Edition 1.21 and Bedrock Edition 1.21.0‌[upcoming], slimes have a chance to be selected as the "melee" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers.

Drops
  On death
    A player can earn a possible maximum of 28 experience points from killing one large slime and all the slimes that split from it.

    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Slimeball,100% [d 1],0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Slimeball,100% [d 2],1,1,1,1

    1 when killed by the player

Behavior
    Slimes move by hopping, which they do every 10 to 30 ticks (1⁄2 to 1 1⁄2 seconds), and can swim in water and climb ladders and scaffolding. Unlike other mobs, slimes continue moving when no players are nearby. Their exact routine is as follows: The slime searches for a player (or, failing that, an iron golem) within 16 blocks (spherical) distance. Unlike most mobs, slimes do not pathfind toward their target, always approaching their target in a straight line, without avoiding environmental hazards such as lava, cactus or dangerous falls. This means they can easily get stuck in corners or behind walls, not knowing how to circumvent them. This behavior is shared by magma cubes. A slime's maximum health is equal to its size squared, and its dimensions are 0.51 blocks times its size in each dimension. When a slime attacks, it deals damage equal to its size, except for size 1 (smallest) slimes, which do no damage, and do not prevent sleeping. Because small slimes still have a hostile AI, they continuously attack the player. A slime's jump distance also depends on its size; a slime jumps a distance slightly farther than its length. When landing, a number (8 times the slime's size) of slime particles appear. Regardless of size, slimes always jump 1 block high. When a slime larger than 1 dies, it spawns 2-4 new slimes equivalent to its size divided by 2, rounding down. A slime that was named with a name tag produces smaller slimes with the same name when it dies. Slimes continuously damage all players and iron golems‌[JE  only] they collide with (although damage immunity reduces the actual damage to 1 attack every half second), unlike other mobs that damage only those targets they specifically attack.[3] Slimes in water attempt to swim to the surface if possible. If forced to stay submerged, they eventually drown, splitting into smaller slimes that drown and finally drop slimeballs.

