Overview
    The witch is a hostile mob that uses potions in combat, both in the form of magical weapons as splash potions and in the form of drinkable potions for defense.

Spawning
    A witch may spawn in the Overworld above opaque blocks at a light level of 0 in all biomes except mushroom fields and deep dark. Witches always spawn individually. Witches are the only mobs that can spawn in the small area around a swamp hut. Swamp biomes feature witch hut structures: every swamp hut spawns a witch and a black-colored cat inside during the world generation, and both never despawn. After world generation, only witches can spawn in the hut, provided that the entire hut is inside a swamp biome. In Java Edition, only witches spawn in the 7×7×9 volume that is the hut, which is the size of the roof and one block over the porch, from one level below the floor of the hut to two blocks above the roof. In Bedrock Edition, the hut has a hardcoded spawn spot on which witches spawn: the spawn spot is the same for every hut. Some witches always spawn as part of raids starting from wave 4 in Bedrock Edition or wave 3 or 4 in Java Edition depending on the world difficulty. A villager transforms into a witch when lightning strikes within four blocks from it. The witch transformed from a villager does not despawn naturally and cannot be changed back into a villager. This witch attacks the player with its potions even if the player traded with it before.

Drops
    One death, a witch rolls its loot table between 1 and 3 times, selecting one of the following rows each time:

    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Glowstone Dust,1–3 × 1/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Sugar,1–3 × 1/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Redstone Dust,1–3 × 1/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Spider Eye,1–3 × 1/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Glass Bottle,1–3 × 1/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Gunpowder,1–3 × 1/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5
    ,Stick,1–3 × 2/8,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5

    As result, no Looting averages two items per kill, Looting I averages three, Looting II averages four and Looting III averages five. The likelihood of dropping the maximum amount of 15 items is 1⁄81 or 1.234% because of the complexity of the loot table. 5 experience is dropped when kill credit is given to the player. One of four types of drinkable potion has an 8.5% chance of dropping if a witch is killed while drinking the potion increased by 1% for every level of Looting. A witch drops one of the following potions in this case:

Behavior
    A witch is covered by purple-colored morning stars ocasionally. There is an 1.5% chance every second to spawn those 10 to 44 ornamental particles above their heads to represent shining stars named “witch” in Java Edition or “witchspell” in Bedrock Edition. In Java Edition, any witch is given the Glowing status effect for three seconds when the bell block is rung within 32 blocks of it regardless of whether it participates in raids or not. A witch is neither an illager nor a villager. A witch cannot use housing or the equipment in their swamp huts, and cannot open doors. Witches are peaceful toward villagers and wandering traders when not participating in raids, although their potions can hit one by accident. Witches that participate in a raid seek out illagers and ravagers to throw splash potions of Regeneration of 45 seconds near to them or Instant Health if they have a low health of 4 points or less. The poison, instant damage, evoker fangs, warden's sonic boom and the Thorns enchantment magical sources are 85% less effective against witches. In Bedrock Edition, witches are immune to poison, fatal poison and to the instant damage (but not the knockback) caused by their own thrown harming potions. A witch pursues the player within 16 blocks and uses potions of the first level in combat, throwing splash potions offensively and drinking potions defensively. These potions are the same as ones obtainable through brewing, with the same duration. A witch has an infinite stock of potions, even when transformed from a villager or not having had any potions equipped in their inventory. Each potion chosen by the witch depends on the circumstance and is thrown within ten blocks and in a three-second interval. A witch may choose to equip and drink a potion each game tick (1⁄20 second) if it is not already drinking a potion. Drinking the potion takes 1.6 seconds[1] and slows down its moving speed a little. The witch does not attack during this time. As a result, witches are difficult to kill via suffocation or cacti due to their frequent use of healing potions, cannot drown underwater and require a long time to die in lava or fire. If the witch, ravager or illager raid members kill all the villagers in a village or all the village beds are destroyed, witches jump and show unique sound effects in commemoration to their victory. In Bedrock Edition, witches attack iron golems and snow golems or any mob that attacks it, including other witches and illagers, throwing negative splash potions. In Java Edition, witches drink a beneficial potion, often an instant-health healing potion, when they attacked by evoker fangs, illager mobs or harming potions from other witches and join an illager patrol if sufficiently near to the pillager, vindicator, evoker and illusioner patrol captain mobs. These witches that join a patrol are hostile toward villagers, wandering traders and iron golems if in their sight. In Java Edition, witches can ride any mob via commands, including boss mobs. In Bedrock Edition, witches cannot ride ravagers because the witch is not considered an illager.

