Overview
    A zoglin is an undead hostile mob created when a hoglin enters the Overworld or End. It never retreats or flees, and attacks players and almost all non-zoglin mobs indiscriminately, using the same tusk attack as its non-zombified counterpart.

Spawning
    Zoglins spawn when a hoglin has been in the Overworld or the End for 300 game ticks (15 seconds). For their first 10 seconds after zombification, they get the   nausea effect. This nausea effect is cosmetic and does not affect its behavior.
Like most hostile mobs, zoglins despawn when the difficulty is changed to Peaceful.‌[JE  only] In Bedrock Edition, zoglins still exist in the world and are passive only to players.

Drops
  On death
    Both adult and baby zoglins share the following item drop table:

    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Rotten Flesh,100%,1–3,1–4,1–5,1–6

Behavior
    Zoglins are hostile toward armor stands[1], players in Survival or Adventure mode (except in Peaceful difficulty), and all mobs except creepers, ghasts, and other zoglins. This includes hoglins and zombified piglins. Normal hoglins do not attack normal piglins unless provoked by piglins. When an adult zoglin attacks, it flings its target into the air. Blocking with shields does not mitigate this. When a baby zoglin attacks, they do not fling their target. Baby zoglins, unlike baby hoglins, never grow up. Any mob that can retaliate attacks a zoglin in return after being attacked, including baby zoglins. In Java Edition adult zoglins attack once every two seconds and babies attack every second, In Bedrock Edition both adults and babies attack once every second, making them more destructive compared to Java Edition, even on peaceful difficulty. When a zoglin attacks a piglin, the piglin either retreats or fights back. Piglin brutes attack zoglins if they are attacked first and never retreat. They also attack the zoglin if the zoglin attacks a piglin or another piglin brute. If a zoglin is fed crimson fungus before it is zombified, it does not despawn naturally and it doesn't count toward the mob cap. Zoglins are incapable of breeding and do not flee from blocks that repel hoglins. Zoglins can be leashed. Unlike baby hoglins, baby zoglins attack baby zombified piglins. Piglins flee from zoglins if they are not engaged in combat. In water, they sink to the bottom and wander about as if on dry land. They do not drown. Being an undead mob, they are: Like zombified piglins, they are immune to fire and lava.

