Overview
    A panda is a rare neutral mob that resides in jungles. Certain aspects of a panda's behavior and appearance vary depending on its personality.

Spawning
    Pandas spawn rarely in groups of 1–2 in jungle biomes at the surface on grass blocks with at least two-block space above them at a light level of 9 or more. They are slightly more common in bamboo jungles and have a 5% chance to spawn as cubs instead of adults. They do not spawn on podzol despite that bamboo jungles are covered by it.[1] Pandas spawn with a randomized personality, with the normal personality being the most common and the brown variant being the rarest.

Drops
  Breeding
    Upon successful breeding, 1–7 is dropped.

  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Bamboo (JE),100%,1,1,1,1
    ,Bamboo (BE),100%,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5

    Like other baby animals, killing a panda cub yields no items or experience.

  Sneezing
    Baby pandas have 1⁄700 chance to drop 1 slimeball after they sneeze.

Behavior
    Pandas act similarly to other neutral mobs; they attack when hurt but only once, similar to llamas and bees. Pandas do not attack on Peaceful difficulty. Pandas follow any player that is carrying bamboo and stop following if the player moves beyond approximately 16 blocks away. They also whimper if a thunderstorm is happening in the area. Adult pandas seek out bamboo and cake to eat. Baby pandas have a 1⁄6000 chance (0.01666%) of sneezing every tick. Weak baby pandas are more likely to sneeze with a 1⁄500 (0.2%) chance every tick. Sneezing makes all adult pandas within 10 blocks jump and rarely drops a slimeball. Baby pandas also occasionally roll over and jump around. Pandas have one private inventory. Pandas can be ridden by baby zombie variants.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] A lead cannot be used on a panda by normal means.[2] However, a panda can be leashed using a map editor or NBT editor. If a panda is being attacked by a player near a villager, that villager displays angry particles.‌[Java Edition  only] However, it does not affect the popularity of the player.

  Personalities
    Pandas have different personalities: normal, lazy, worried, playful, aggressive, weak, or brown.

  Breeding
    The panda is the only animal to have extra breeding conditions. In Java Edition, pandas enter love mode when fed with bamboo, but breed only if there is at least one bamboo block (not including shoots) within a five-block radius;[verify] otherwise the pandas briefly shake their heads and not breed until that requirement is met. In Bedrock Edition, there must be at least 8 bamboo blocks within a five-block radius of each panda in order for them to enter love mode. If a panda is fed without a sufficient amount of bamboo nearby, it sits and eats the bamboo instead of entering love mode. Once pandas successfully breed, they produce a panda cub that remains passive instead of neutral toward that player.

Genetics
    Each panda has two hidden values called "genes" or "alleles", as found in genetics. Pandas have a main gene and a hidden gene, each assigned to a particular trait. Normal, aggressive, lazy, worried, and playful personalities are dominant traits, while weak and brown personalities are recessive traits. If the main gene is a dominant gene, then it presents as the personality regardless of the hidden gene. If the main gene is recessive and the hidden gene is not the same trait, then a normal personality results. As recessive traits, weak and brown personalities occur if both the main and hidden genes of a panda are weak or brown, respectively. The hidden gene is only relevant in determining the panda's personality if the main gene is recessive. When two pandas breed, each one passes one of their genes to their children, who then randomly mix both obtained genes as their respective main and hidden genes. There is also a 1⁄32 chance for each gene of the baby to mutate into another gene. Normal, weak, and brown traits more commonly result from mutations than other traits do. These probabilities also apply to naturally spawned pandas for their main and hidden genes.

    Mutated Gene,Probability
    Normal,5 ⁄ 16
    Aggressive,1 ⁄ 16
    Lazy,1 ⁄ 16
    Worried,1 ⁄ 16
    Playful,1 ⁄ 16
    Weak,5 ⁄ 16
    Brown,1 ⁄ 8

    Panda Personality,Hidden Gene
    Normal,Aggressive,Lazy,Worried,Playful,Weak,Brown
    Main Gene,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal
    Aggressive,Aggressive,Aggressive,Aggressive,Aggressive,Aggressive,Aggressive,Aggressive
    Lazy,Lazy,Lazy,Lazy,Lazy,Lazy,Lazy,Lazy
    Worried,Worried,Worried,Worried,Worried,Worried,Worried,Worried
    Playful,Playful,Playful,Playful,Playful,Playful,Playful,Playful
    Weak,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Weak,Normal
    Brown,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Normal,Brown

    The only way to directly observe the hidden gene of a panda is to use the command : /data get entity @e[type=minecraft:panda,limit=1] HiddenGene‌[Java Edition  only] or using third-party NBT editors.

