Overview
    A llama is a tamable neutral mob used to transport large shipments of items. A trader llama is a special variant that follows wandering traders.

Spawning
    A llama spawns at a light level 7 or above on grass blocks in savanna plateau, savanna‌[BE  only][1] or windswept savanna‌[BE  only] biomes in herds of 4 llamas and in windswept hills, windswept forest, and windswept gravelly hills biomes in herds of 4 to 6 llamas, coming in four coat colors: brown, cream, white or gray. A wandering traders spawns with two leashed trader llamas. In Bedrock Edition, trader llamas always spawn with a wandering trader. 10% of llamas spawn as baby llamas. Trader llamas often despawn one tick before their trader does, because a trader llama has its DespawnDelay set to 47999 ticks. This value is decremented each tick that the llama is untamed, unleashed, and not being ridden by a player, and is reset to one less than the trader's own DespawnDelay if leashed to a trader. The llama despawns if the value reaches zero.

Drops
  Breeding
    1–7 upon successful breeding.

  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Leather,100%,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5

    Like other baby animals, killing a baby llama yields no item or experience.

Caravans
    Llamas do not accept saddles, so the player cannot control its movement, even when tamed. Leads are the best way to move llamas. Leashing a llama actually signals all other llamas not already in a caravan nearby (up to nine) to follow each other, forming a caravan of up to ten llamas. Leashing a second llama forms a caravan of ten more llamas and there is no limit on the number of llamas following a player. A llama can be equipped with a chest by right clicking a chest on it once tamed, giving it 3, 6, 9, 12 or 15 slots of inventory space, scaling directly with its Strength NBT (see § Data values below). Once equipped, the chest cannot be retrieved without killing the llama and can be accessed by shift + right clicking the llama. A llama's potential carry capacity is a number of item slots equal to 3*Strength, with a maximum of 15 spaces.

    Strength distribution in wild llamas
    1,2,3,4,5
    32.8%,32.8%,32.8%,0.8%,0.8%

    Llamas can be equipped with carpets in their carpet slot (). Each carpet color shows as a different patterned rug on the llama's back. This can be useful for color-coding their storage, similar to dyed shulker boxes. For the purposes of the /item command, a llama carries its carpet in the horse.armor slot. Trader llamas that do not have a carpet wear a blue rug design. It can be replaced with a carpet but not removed. When given carpets, both types of llama look the same. A llama's carpet decoration remains visible when the llama is under the effect of Invisibility.

Behavior
    The llama floats when in water deeper than two blocks. Llamas are neutral, but if a player or mob attacks one, it will retaliate. Sometimes their spit can miss their target and hit another llama, starting a fight within a group of llamas. Additionally, a wandering trader's llamas spit at mobs or players who attack the wandering trader. Llamas are hostile toward wolves and spit without provocation, but they don't attack tamed wolves unless provoked. Wolves are fearful of llamas of strength 4 or 5 and always run away.[2] Wolves flee from weaker llamas less often. Trader llamas are hostile toward illagers‌[Java Edition  only] and all zombie variants, defending both themselves and their wandering trader.

  Llama Spit
    Llamas attack other mobs by spitting at them, which deals 1 damage.

  Breeding
    Adult tamed llamas can be bred by being fed a hay bale. The baby llama takes on the coat color of one parent at random. Its strength is chosen as a random integer between 1 and the strength of the stronger parent, inclusive. 3% of the time the resulting strength is increased by 1, but it is capped at 5. When two trader llamas are bred, the offspring wears a rug.

    "Stronger parent's
strength",Offspring's strength
    1,2,3,4,5
    1,97%,3%,,,
    2,48.5%,50%,1.5%,,
    3,32.33%,33.33%,33.33%,1%,
    4,24.25%,25%,25%,25%,0.75%
    5,19.4%,20%,20%,20%,20.6%

    Select a row based on the stronger parent. The column shows the probability of the resulting offspring having a given strength. A llama's base health (15 to 30 hitpoints) is calculated based on that of its parents, in the same way as a horse's.

  Taming
    Llamas can be tamed by repetitively riding them until hearts are displayed, done by pressing use on the llama while holding nothing. Taming success depends on the llama's Temper NBT. Temper is a positive trait, with higher values increasing the chance of successful taming. Llamas begin with a Temper value of 0 and a maximum of 30. When a player rides an untamed llama, a random number from 0 to 29 is chosen. The llama gets tamed successfully if this number is less than the Temper value, otherwise, the Temper is increased by 5 and the player is bucked off. Temper can also be increased by feeding the llama. Tamed llamas can still retaliate at players should the player hit them. If a player kills a wandering trader and stays away from the trader llamas for a while, the llamas are tame when the player rides it and the player can place carpets on the llama. Naturally spawned trader llamas are untamed and cannot be ridden while being led by their wandering trader. If unleashed, they become tamable‌[Java Edition  only] or tamed.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] A death message is displayed to a tamed llama's owner if it is killed. Tamed trader llamas do not despawn. Tamed llamas do not spit at mobs that attack its owner, although it spits at any mob that attacks the llama. Feeding a llama food can alter its behavior, restoring lost health or making a baby grow faster (babies ordinarily take around 20 minutes to mature to adults). The table below lists the effects of the 2 food items llamas accept. To feed a llama, hold a valid food item and press use while facing the llama. Llamas can be fed only when feeding would have an effect, similar to other animals. If the food is invalid, the player mounts the llama instead.

    Food,Heals,Speeds growth by,Increases temper by,Notes
    Wheat,2,10 sec,+3,
    Hay Bale,10,1:30 minutes,+6,Activates love mode in tamed llamas.

