Overview
    A wolf is a neutral mob that can be tamed and used to assist in combat with most hostile mobs.

Spawning
    Wolves spawn naturally above grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, snow blocks or podzol in forests, taigas, groves, old growth taigas, and snowy taigas, along with all variants of these biomes (with the exception of flower forests), in packs of 4, where 10% spawn as pups. Naturally-spawned wolves are untamed and become hostile if attacked by the player.

Drops
    Adult wolves drop 1–3 experience orbs when killed by a player or tamed wolf. A tamed wolf that is killed by its owner still drops experience. Upon successful breeding, 1–7 are dropped. Like other baby animals, killing a pup yields no experience.

Behavior and appearance
    Wolves exhibit three different states depending on how the user interacts with them: A wolf becomes hostile to a player or other mob that attacks it unless the attacker is the wolf's owner, or is otherwise on the same team, or if killed in one hit‌[JE  only]. It also causes wild wolves and standing tamed wolves in a 33×33×21 cuboid centered on the attacked wolf to become hostile to the attacker, allowing coordination for attacks and team hunts (only in wild wolves). In Java Edition, any tamed wolf attacked by a player/mob causes all standing wolves on that team to attack that player/mob who attacked the tamed wolf. If damaged by a mob or entity other than a player or arrow, wolves of any type only take roughly half of the original damage ((damage + 1) / 2). Skeletons and their variants, foxes, baby turtles and passive rabbits actively avoid both tamed and wild wolves. Killer rabbits‌[JE  only] attack wolves actively. Sheep ignore wolves, but flee when attacked by one. Sheep ignore tamed wolves but also do not flee from them. When a player within 8 blocks holds meat or bones near a wolf, the wolf tilts its head as if to 'beg' for the food for 2 to 4 seconds. The behavior of pups is the same as tamed wolves. Pups have larger heads, similar to other animal babies. Wolves are 0.85‌[JE  only] or 0.8‌[BE  only] blocks tall and pups are 0.425‌[JE  only] or 0.4‌[BE  only] blocks tall. The textures of the wolves are tinted dark gray once submerged in water. In Peaceful difficulty, hostile wolves deal no damage to the player.

  Movement
    Standing tamed wolves wander randomly when near their owner, but follow if more than 10 blocks away and teleport to a nearby free block (if any) if more than 12 blocks away. Besides making travel easier, teleportation can be used to rescue them from lava, water or pits, as they immediately teleport to a safe area.

  Teleportation
    Tamed wolves teleport to their owner, if they are more than 12 blocks away, with a few caveats. An angry or untamed wolf does not teleport. Tamed wolves do not teleport if: Wolf teleportation is completely silent; this is not an oversight.[3]

  Taming, health and feeding
    A wolf can be tamed by feeding it bones. Once tamed, a wolf does not accept any more bones. Note that the number of bones required is random – each bone has a 1⁄3 chance of taming the wolf.[4] If the wolf is tamed, it receives a red collar and, in Java Edition, sits if not swimming. There is no limit[5] to the number of wolves the player can tame.

A wolf's tail rises and lowers depending on its health. The exact health of an individual wolf can be determined by measuring the angle between its hind legs and tail. The angle indicates the percentage of health that the wolf has. Tamed wolves whine when they have low health (below 10). Wild wolves have a maximum health of 8, so their tails always remain significantly lower than those of tamed wolves. Tamed wolves can be healed by feeding them any sort of meat other than fish;‌[Bedrock Edition  only] listed below, this restores as much of the wolf's health as the same food would restore hunger points when eaten by the player.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] The wolf cannot be tamed if it is hostile or already tamed. Wolves that are tamed by the same player can accidentally attack each other while attacking another mob, leading to a fight. 

    Food,Heals (Java Edition),Heals (Bedrock Edition),Notes
    Raw Cod Raw Salmon,N/A,2,‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
    Pufferfish Tropical Fish,N/A,1,"Pufferfish can be fed to wolves without making them get the Hunger , Poison and Nausea status effects.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]"
    Cooked Cod,N/A,5,‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
    Raw Chicken,1,2,Raw chicken can be fed to wolves without making them get the Hunger status effect.
    Cooked Chicken,1,6,
    Raw Porkchop Raw Beef Raw Rabbit,2,3,
    Cooked Porkchop Steak,2,8,
    Rotten Flesh,2,4,Rotten flesh can be fed to wolves without making them get the Hunger status effect.
    Raw Mutton,2,2,
    Cooked Mutton,2,6,
    Cooked Rabbit,2,5,
    Cooked Salmon,N/A,6,‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
    Rabbit Stew,N/A,10,‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]

    Wolves do not get food poisoning, so they can freely eat rotten flesh, pufferfish or raw chicken. Feeding a tamed wolf that is already at full health usually starts the "love mode" animation. A tamed wolf's necklace/collar color can be changed by using a dye on the wolf.

  Breeding
    Tamed wolves at full health can be bred with any type of meat, including rotten flesh and raw chicken without causing the hunger status effect. There is a 5-minute cooldown for breeding, during which the wolf does not accept meat. The growth of pups can be slowly accelerated using any type of meat. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up. Unlike healing, rabbit stew or any type of fish cannot be used for breeding or speeding up growth. Breeding two wolves that recognize someone else as an owner causes the pup to also be owned by the owner of the original two wolves. If two tamed wolves have different owners, their pups will randomly follow one of their two owners. If the player attacks an untamed wolf and then feeds it, hearts appear as when entering breeding mode, although the wolf does not breed and remains aggressive toward the player.

