Overview
    A zombified piglin is a neutral undead variant of the piglin that inhabits the Nether. Zombified piglins normally ignore players, but if one is attacked, it and all zombified piglins in the vicinity become enraged and attack the aggressor with their golden swords.

Spawning
    Zombified piglins can spawn in nether wastes, crimson forests, nether portals, from pigs struck by lightning, or from piglins or piglin brutes in the Overworld or in the End. They have a 5% chance of spawning as baby zombified piglins. Zombified piglins do not spawn on top of nether wart blocks. Like other naturally fireproof mobs, they can spawn on magma blocks. A baby zombified piglin has a chance of spawning as a chicken jockey in Java Edition. An adult zombified piglin can also spawn riding a Strider above lava, holding a warped fungus on a stick. All zombified piglins spawn with a golden sword, which has up to 25% chance of being enchanted in Normal or Hard modes. This chance varies depending on the regional difficulty. The sword's enchantment is from 5 to 23 levels. On Halloween (October 31), zombified piglins have a 22.5% chance of spawning with a carved pumpkin or a 2.5% chance of spawning with a jack o'lantern equipped as headgear.‌[Java Edition  only] This is not dropped, even if killed with Looting.

  Nether
    Zombified piglins spawn in groups of 4‌[JE  only] / 2-4‌[BE  only] in the Nether at light level 11 and below on most blocks other than nether wart block. They spawn most commonly in nether wastes, frequently in nether fortresses, uncommonly in crimson forests and are sometimes found riding striders in lava oceans.

  Nether portals
    When a nether portal block in the Overworld receives a random tick, there is a chance of 1⁄2000 (0.05%) on Easy, 1⁄1000 (0.1%) on Normal and 3⁄2000 (0.15%) on Hard for it to spawn a zombified piglin. In Java Edition, they appear inside one of the portal blocks on the bottom. In Bedrock Edition, they spawn one block to the east or south of the portal (depending on which direction the portal is facing). Neither slabs nor lighting prevents this. "Portal ticking" can be used to increase the rate of zombified piglin spawning by repeatedly lighting and breaking a nether portal. Zombified piglin spawning via this process is completely independent of the mob cap, similar to the spawning of phantoms in Java Edition, which means they can still spawn if there are a sufficient number of hostile mobs in the world. Zombified piglins who spawn in this way cannot travel to the Nether for a preset amount of time, whether they walk through the portal they spawned in or through nearby portals.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Pigs
    A zombified piglin spawns when lightning strikes within 4 blocks of a pig. If the pig is a piglet, it then transforms into a baby zombified piglin.

  Piglins
    A piglin or piglin brute that enters the Overworld or the End transforms into a zombified piglin after 15 seconds. When piglins wielding crossbows zombify, they keep their crossbows, but are unable to use them, and perform melee attack like other zombified piglins. When baby piglins zombify, they do not have weapons, unlike baby zombified piglins that naturally spawn. When piglin brutes zombify, they keep their axes. The newly zombified piglin gets the Nausea effect for 10 seconds. This is a purely visual effect, and does not affect the mob's behavior. A zombified piglin keeps any armor or weapons collected before being zombified‌[JE  only]. Baby zombified piglins also have a 5% chance of becoming a chicken jockey‌[Java Edition  only]. If a piglin is in the middle of bartering and gets zombified while inspecting a gold ingot, it drops the ingot when it turns into a zombified piglin.

Drops
  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Rotten Flesh,100%,0–1,0–2,0–3,0–4
    ,Gold Nugget,100%,0–1,0–2,0–3,0–4
    ,Gold Ingot,2.5%–5.5% [d 1],1 (2.5%),1 (3.5%),1 (4.5%),1 (5.5%)

Behavior
    Zombified piglins wander aimlessly about when idle. They move at 2.28 m/s and are immune to fire and lava. When provoked, their speed increases to 3.38 m/s or faster for babies. In Java Edition, like zombies, zombified piglins can attack wooden doors and may break them on Hard difficulty.[2] In Normal and Hard difficulties, up to 55%‌[JE  only] or 25%‌[BE  only] of zombified piglins pick up any armor pieces and swords better than their golden one, which they always drop when killed. This also prevents them from despawning. Zombified piglins may pick up an illager banner next to it‌[BE  only] as pillagers do.[3] Zombified piglins try to destroy any turtle eggs they see within 23 blocks away horizontally and 3 blocks away vertically (10 blocks horizontally and 2 blocks vertically in Bedrock Edition), not counting the block they are standing in. When a zombified piglin is first spawned, it always detects nearby turtle eggs after exactly 2 seconds, as long as there are two blocks of air above it. However, if the turtle egg is placed after the zombified piglin spawned, the zombified piglin takes some time to notice the turtle egg and try to break it. Zombified piglins avoid walking near magma blocks and cannot jump over magma blocks one block high. If a zombified piglin is surrounded by magma block wall one block height or higher, it gets near those surrounding magma blocks surrounding them. If a zombified piglin spawns on or is pushed onto magma blocks, it pathfinds normally on the magma. Zombified piglins do not retreat from zoglins, soul torches/lanterns, soul fire or soul campfires. Zoglins attack zombified piglins on sight, causing a retaliation. Zombified piglins are not distracted by gold, and cannot barter, unlike piglins. They also do not follow players that are holding a gold ingot or another gold item. Villagers and wandering traders run away from zombified piglins, despite them being passive to villagers and wandering traders.‌[BE  only] In addition, piglins squeal in distress and flee from zombified piglins if they get too close. Zombified piglins ignore piglins unless provoked. Iron golems attack zombified piglins, which causes other zombified piglins to attack the iron golem. A zombified piglin is neutral to every mob that can attack, but they retaliate and gang up on any mob that provokes them.

  Mob type
    Undead, they are:

  Hostility
    Zombified piglins are not initially hostile, but all zombified piglins within a 67×22×67 to 111×22×111 area‌[JE  only] or a 20-block radius‌[BE  only] centered on an attacked zombified piglin become aggressive and converge on the attacker (another mob or player, except goats and ghasts) if any individual is attacked, unless the zombified piglin attacked is killed in one hit.[4]‌[JE  only] They make an aggressive sound when angered. In addition, some zombified piglins have the ability to spawn reinforcements when attacked (similar to zombies and which can rarely include actual zombies).‌[JE  only] This applies to any hit registered as coming from the player or other mobs, whether it's accidentally or purposefully, which includes deflected ghast fireballs, sweep attacks, snowballs and eggs, fireworks shot from crossbows, TNT, or a skeleton arrow. Arrows shot from dispensers or bed explosions[5] don't provoke zombified piglins. Duration: A zombified piglin can remain hostile indefinitely if it is both within the follow range of the zombified piglin (33 to 55 blocks), and has a direct line of sight with the player. However, breaking one of those conditions causes a hostile zombified piglin to return neutral after a "forgiveness timer" expires. In Java Edition, this timer ranges from 20 seconds to 55 seconds, whereas in Bedrock Edition it is always 25 seconds. The forgiveness timer does not advance for zombified piglins in unloaded chunks. Therefore, if the player enters a nether portal and returns, any provoked zombified piglins in the area remain aggressive (unless another player was nearby to keep the chunks loaded). A player's death causes zombified piglins to become neutral toward the player if the gamerule forgiveDeadPlayers is true.‌[JE  only] A hostile zombified piglin can also "sound an alarm", spreading the aggro to all zombified piglins within a 67×22×67 to 111×22×111 area ‌[JE  only] or 20-block‌[BE  only] radius. A hostile zombified piglin does this whenever the targeted player is within their follow range (33 to 55 blocks) and has a constant line-of-sight with its target, then it does the same every 4–6 seconds (80-120 game ticks), recruiting any formerly-neutral peers. They pursue players even if they have the Invisibility effect. In Bedrock Edition, a nearby neutral zombified piglin prevents a player from sleeping, as if it were a hostile mob. Hostile zombified piglins have slightly different path finding than when they are neutral. For example, they would fall off edges that would cause them fall damage in attempt to reach the attacker where most other mobs would otherwise not do. When a zombified piglin is angered, the normal piglins do not get aggressive, and vice versa. Unlike other zombie variants, zombified piglins do not attack villagers and wandering traders.

