Overview
    A camel is a passive mob found in desert villages that can be saddled and ridden by up to two players at once. A camel is tall enough that its riders cannot be reached from the ground by a few melee-attacking harmful mobs, who do not attack the camel.

Spawning
    One camel spawns in the center of each desert village during world generation. They do not respawn if they are killed.

Drops
    1–3 experience orbs drop when camels are killed by a player or tamed wolf. A saddle is dropped if the camel was already equipped with one. Upon successful breeding, 1–7 is dropped. Killing a baby camel yields neither items nor experience.

Behavior
    A camel wanders aimlessly, avoiding hazards and obstacles, or it sits for two to seven seconds before standing up again. Camels immediately flees after being harmed, even when sitting. A sitting camel cannot be pushed by players or mobs.[1] Sitting camels do not stand up if there are solid blocks above them, because doing so would inflict suffocation damage. Camels are healed by 2 health points each time they are fed a cactus. Camels also heal slowly on their own over time. Even though camels are bred with cacti, touching a cactus block still harms them like any other mob. Camels have the unique ability to step up 1.5 block-high walls, unlike other mounts such as horses, which can automatically step up one block without jumping. This allows camels to step onto fences and walls, among other things.

  Riding
    Camels can be ridden by players without needing to tame them. Up to two players can ride one camel. While riding, the player in the back seat cannot hurt the player driving or the camel itself. Camels have one slot in their inventory, to hold a saddle. A saddle can be placed on a camel by holding it and then using it on the camel, or by accessing its inventory. A camel's inventory can be accessed by mounting the camel and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using or pressing the "open inventory" button‌[Bedrock Edition  only] on the camel. Once a camel is saddled, the player can control it with standard directional controls, jump, and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control. Like riding other entities, it is impossible for a player to use a nether portal or end portal while riding a camel. Camels cannot float on water when being controlled by a player. They can be ridden in water up to 3 blocks deep. In deeper water, the player is automatically dismounted.[2] Camels walk slowly and can sprint. Saddled camels also have the ability of "dashing charging". When the player rides them, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by a dash charging bar. Dashing is done using the jump control, and holding the control charges for a longer dashing. Camels can dash every 2.75 seconds. When dashing, the camel launches up to 12 blocks forward and one block upward. For a short time after dashing, the camel cannot sprint. Camels are tall enough that most melee hostile mobs such as zombies, vindicators, hoglins, silverfish, endermites and golden sword-wielding piglins cannot reach players to attack them. Spiders, wolves, slimes and magma cubes can attack because they jump or climb while attacking. Most mobs never deliberately attack camels under any circumstance, even to reach players riding one; the only exceptions are mobs that attack all other mobs, these being zoglins and vindicators named "Johnny".

Breeding
    A camel follows the player who holds a cactus but stops following the player if it is separated from the player by at least 10 blocks‌[Java Edition  only] / 16 blocks‌[Bedrock Edition  only]. Sitting camels do not follow the player. Adult camels enter love mode and breed to create baby camels after they are each given a cactus. The parents have a cooldown of five minutes before they can breed again. The growth time that baby camels take to be an adult camel can be reduced by giving the baby camel cactus.

