Overview
    A cat is a passive mob found in villages and swamp huts. They can be tamed and used to repel creepers and phantoms.

Spawning
    Cats can spawn every 1200 ticks (1 minute). A random player is selected (including spectators) and a random location is chosen 8-32 blocks away from the player horizontally in both directions and at the same height. A cat can spawn if that block is less than 2 chunks from a village with fewer than 5 cats, or inside a swamp hut.

  Villages
    Untamed cats spawn in villages as long as there are at least five claimed beds within 48 blocks and at most four cats within a 97×17×97 box centered around the spawn position. Cats that spawn with the creation of a village do not despawn, however, any additional cats that spawn within a village may despawn. A village cat spawns with a random appearance, although black cats may spawn only during a full moon; which works in both Java Edition and Bedrock Edition.[verify] The spawning of cats in villages is a separate process from the natural spawning of passive mobs and thus is not affected by the Creature mob cap. In Bedrock Edition, a village periodically spawns stray cats to fill a quota of 1 cat per 4 owned beds, up to a maximum of 5 cats for 20 or more owned beds. Only owned beds (those currently claimed by a villager) are counted for this purpose. All cats within the village boundaries are counted, including kittens, cats that wander in from outside and even tamed cats owned by a player. If the number of cats found is short of the quota, the village tries to spawn one cat or kitten within a volume of 16×6×16 blocks centered on the village center. (This is the same volume used when a village spawns an iron golem.)

  Swamp Hut
    One untamed black cat generates alongside a witch inside swamp huts upon world generation. This cat never despawns. Additional cats can spawn within the hut similarly to witches; for this to happen, there must be grass blocks present inside the bounding box of the swamp hut. In Java Edition, any other cats to spawn within the swamp hut (from spawn eggs and commands without cat type set) always spawn as black. A new cat does not spawn in a hut if there is already a cat within a 16×8×16 block volume.‌[Java Edition  only][verify]

  Bedrock Edition
    25% of cats spawn as kittens. During a full moon, 50% of cats that spawn are black.

Drops
  Adult
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,String,100%,0–2,0-2,0-2,0-2

    Upon successful breeding, 1–7 is dropped.

  Baby
    Like other baby animals, killing a kitten yields no item or experience.

Appearance
    Despite sharing the same model, cats are smaller than ocelots. There are currently 11 skins that cats can have. One of the cat skins was designed after Jellie, the cat of YouTuber GoodTimesWithScar, and was chosen by the community in a Twitter vote.[2] The current skins are: In the default resource pack, a texture file for a tamed gray tabby exists.‌[BE  only][1] It is however completely unused and cannot be spawned in-game. Like tamed wolves, tamed cats also have a collar on their necks. The color of the cat's collar is red when tamed and can be changed by using dyes.

Behavior
    Cats are immune to fall damage, but they still avoid falling off cliffs high enough to normally cause fall damage. Cats can see players even if they have the Invisibility status effect. With the exception of a faster movement rate, kittens have the same behavior as adults. They hiss at phantoms that are currently pursuing a player.‌[JE  only] Creepers and phantoms avoid cats, even while pursuing a player, keeping a distance of 6 and 16 blocks away respectively from any cats. However, a creeper that has begun its detonation does not flee unless the player leaves its blast radius.

  Stray cat
    A stray cat is an untamed cat. Naturally spawned cats always spawn as stray cats. Unlike untamed wolves, stray cats may despawn naturally. They pursue and attack rabbits and baby turtles up to a distance of 15 blocks. Even though they spawn in villages, they don't necessarily remain there; instead, they explore. They sprint away from any player within 7 blocks (unless the player is sneaking‌[BE  only] or difficulty is set to peaceful‌[JE  only]), and avoid players within 16 blocks. However, they slowly approach a player holding raw cod or salmon within 10 blocks, allowing the player to feed and tame it (see § Taming below). If the player turns too quickly or stops holding the fish within 6 blocks, the cat flees and does not attempt to approach the player for a few seconds. Stray cats can be leashed.

  Tamed cat
    Unless commanded to sit (see § Taming below), tamed cats do not remain still for long and explore around the player. A cat not already sitting attempts to get on top of chests, the foot part of beds, or active furnaces at the cat's current Y-level within a 4-block-radius square horizontally, and once on top often assumes a sitting position without a command from the player. A cat also occasionally attempts to sit on these blocks if the blocks are at ground level. A chest with a cat sitting on top of it becomes unusable unless the cat is commanded to stand.
Cats that sit on their own can be ordered to stand, or they may get up if the player holds a raw fish nearby. The cat can also be brought down by removing the block or pushing it off. A cat does not sit on a block that is obstructed by another block above it. A cat can also be forcibly moved by attacking it, and while fleeing for some time, it sporadically sits and stands before finally staying put. Like other mobs, cats enter nearby boats, trapping themselves. If a player is harmed by a hostile mob or a harming potion, but not by environmental damage, a cat sitting in proximity to the player stands, moves a few blocks from its sitting location and then resumes sitting.

  Gifts
    When the player sleeps, tamed cats move toward their owner and sleep near them. When the player wakes, their tamed cats also wake. There is a 70% chance for a tamed cat to give the player a gift after they wake up, but only if the player sleeps at night (if the player sleeps during a thunderstorm during the daytime, or if the tamed cat has been ordered to sit, the player receives no gift). The gift is a dropped item from the cat_morning_gift.json loot table:

    Gift,Weight,Chance,1 in ...
    Rabbit's foot,10 ( 5 ⁄ 31 ),16.13%,6.2
    Rabbit hide
    String
    Rotten flesh
    Feather
    Raw chicken
    Phantom membrane,2 ( 1 ⁄ 31 ),3.22%,31

    After a cat gives a gift, both the cat and the gift are located in the general area of the bed the player slept on, including on the other side of walls or floors. If a player has multiple standing tamed cats in the area, only the tamed cat that sleeps on the player may provide a gift. If all standing tamed cats in the area are prevented from reaching the player (i.e. trapped in minecarts or boats), then in Java Edition each cat has a 70% chance of providing a gift while in Bedrock Edition only one cat may give a gift.

  Teleportation
    Tamed cats teleport to the player if they are more than 12 blocks from the player, except where listed below. It is possible for a tamed cat to teleport to an inaccessible location (e.g. under ice) and be injured or suffocate of various causes as a result. A cat does not teleport: Cat teleportation is completely silent.[3]

  Taming
    Stray cats can be tamed using raw cod or raw salmon (see Behavior for how to approach a cat). Once tamed, cats follow the player who tamed them. They do not despawn, no longer fear the player and purr or meow frequently. Like wolves, and with the same limits, they can teleport to a player who moves 12 blocks away. The player can order a cat to sit/stand by pressing use on it. If the player is holding a raw cod or salmon when commanding a cat to sit or stand, the fish is given to the cat instead, causing it to enter love mode. Once in love mode, the player can command a cat to sit or stand while holding a fish. Cats also sit on certain things of their own accord (see § Tamed cat).

  Breeding
    When tamed cats are fed a raw cod or salmon, they enter love mode. Breeding creates a kitten, and the parents cannot breed again for 5 minutes. The kitten has the coloring of and belongs to the owner of one of the parents. Two sitting cats are unable to breed, but a mobile cat can breed with a sitting cat, in which case the mobile cat's owner also owns the kitten.
The 20 minute growth of kittens can be reduced using raw cod or salmon. Each fish reduces the growth time remaining by 10%.

  Healing
    Feeding an injured tamed cat an uncooked cod or salmon restores its health by 2. Unlike tamed wolves, a tamed cat's tail is not an indicator of its health.

