Overview
    A fox is a passive mob that spawns in cold and snowy forested biomes. They are able to carry a single item in their mouth, but prefer food over other items.

Spawning
    Foxes spawn in groups of two to four in taiga, old growth taiga, snowy taiga and grove biomes. 5% of them spawn as baby foxes.
They can spawn on grass, coarse dirt, podzol, snow blocks, or top snow. Foxes that spawn in snowy or frozen biomes will be white rather than red. The color of a baby fox depends on the color of the parents regardless of whichever biome it is born in.

  Holding items
    Foxes have a 20% chance to spawn (via spawn egg or naturally) with one of the following items in their mouth:

    Item,Chance
    JE,BE
    Emerald,5%
    Rabbit's Foot,10%
    Rabbit Hide,10%
    Egg,15%,20%
    Wheat,20%
    Leather,20%
    Feather,20%,15%

Drops
    An adult fox drops 1–2‌[JE  only]/1–3‌[BE  only] experience orbs when killed by a player or tamed wolf. Upon successful breeding, 1–7 are dropped. Killing a baby fox yields no experience. Foxes always drop any item they pick up and are still holding (they cannot drop food that they have eaten, for example) and drop items they spawn with naturally with a 100% chance, so:

    Drop,Chance
    JE,BE
    Emerald,1%
    Rabbit's Foot,2%
    Rabbit Hide,2%
    Egg,3%,4%
    Wheat,4%
    Leather,4%
    Feather,4%,3%

    If a fox is killed while holding a totem of undying, then the fox consumes the totem and revives itself instead of dropping the totem.

Behavior
    Foxes occasionally make loud screeches during nighttime, unless a trusted player is near them. Baby foxes follow adult foxes. During the night, foxes sometimes go to villages. White foxes go to snow villages and red foxes go to any other type of village, most often taiga villages since foxes spawn in the taiga biome. Foxes flee from nearby wolves, polar bears or players unless the player approaches them while sneaking. They take no damage or speed reduction while moving through sweet berry bushes. Foxes attack chickens, rabbits, cod, salmon and tropical fish, and baby turtles while they are on land. Foxes don't attack wolves even if they are being attacked by them. Foxes attack either by running against or by pouncing. Like rabbits and goats, foxes can pounce more than one block high without status effects or player input. A fox prepares to pounce by tilting and lowering its head and lowering its body to become shorter. Then it leaps two blocks into the air, jumping over fences and walls if needed. If the target mob moves from its location during this sequence, the pounce misses the target. In Bedrock Edition, foxes also shake side to side before pouncing and their legs wave while in midair. While foxes are capable of jumping over fences and walls, they cannot see through them.[1] A fox will not try to attack a mob on the same y-level if there is a fence between them. Red foxes prefer to attack chickens, rabbits and baby turtles, all of which are on land, over cod, salmon, and tropical fish; conversely, white foxes prefer to attack cod, salmon and tropical fish over land-dwelling creatures. A fox that pounces into a snow layer becomes momentarily stuck, remaining face-down, emitting particles while shaking, and returning to normal shortly after. Foxes swim to attack fish in water for food. Baby foxes following adults into the water cannot swim and may eventually drown. Foxes attempt to run toward the closest attackable mob, even if attached to a lead, but do not attempt to break the lead. A fox wakes up from sleeping to attack a mob. Wild wolves are aggressive toward foxes when within 18‌[JE  only]/16‌[BE  only] blocks. In Java Edition, adult polar bears also sneak toward foxes to attack them; in Bedrock Edition adult polar bears attack foxes within 16 blocks. In Java Edition, baby polar bears, though normally passive to players, also attempt to attack foxes within 16 blocks or when their adult polar bear attacks one.

  Sleeping
    Foxes are one of the few mobs in the game that can sleep, along with cats, villagers and bats. During the day, if a thunderstorm is not occurring, foxes attempt to find a space with a sky light level of 14 or less and sleep. Block light has no effect on this. While it sleeps, it slowly moves its head up and down. A fox wakes if approached by a player or mob. Foxes do not flee if the player approaches while sneaking until the player gets on an adjacent block. If the sky light at the fox's position becomes 15 or above, either due to a block above being destroyed or the fox being moved, the fox wakes up. Foxes can drop and pick up items in their sleep. Trusting foxes can fall asleep even if attached to a lead. They can also be moved with leads while sleeping. Foxes do not sleep if they are within 12 blocks of an armor stand.

  Sitting
    A fox sits down sometimes during the day if the fox cannot find a shaded area to sleep. The fox sits for a short time, then hops back up. Foxes sit down even when attached to a lead or in a boat. Foxes that have not been bred by the player always sit while in the Nether, even while attached to a lead.

  Holding items
    If any item is on the ground near a fox, it travels to the item and picks it up, and the item appears in the fox's mouth.
However, usually a fox chooses to attack a mob over picking up an item. This behavior is not limited to food and animal products; a fox can pick up any item that the player can pick up. However, they prefer to pick up food items, and if they have already picked up non-food items, they drop the non-food items to pick up food instead. A fox can also swap a food item it is holding for a different food item. A fox eats any food item it picks up (besides cake) after 30 seconds and the fox is affected by any side effects from the food, such as poison or teleportation. For example, if a fox eats an enchanted golden apple, it obtains the absorption and effects of the enchanted apple. If a fox eats any type of soup or stew, an empty bowl is dropped. If a fox is holding a chorus fruit, it eats the fruit and teleports accordingly. If there is a stage 3 or 4 sweet berry bush within a 16 block radius of a fox, it sprints toward the bush and eats the berries, dropping the item it was holding. It is the only mob not damaged by the sweet berry bush. Although visually holding items in its mouth, they're functionally being held in its main hand, therefore, the fox is affected by any effects of a given held item. A sword will increase its damage, and a totem of undying will save it from death, for instance. If a fox picks up a weapon or an item with enchantments, such as Looting and Fire Aspect, these items affect the fox's attack as if the fox is wielding the weapon in its main hand, although the item retains its durability when used by the fox. If a fox is holding a totem of undying, it receives the effects after taking fatal damage. In Bedrock Edition, if a fox wields a sword with the Fire Aspect enchantment while attacking a mob on a campfire or a soul campfire, it ignites the campfire and does critical damage to the entity. Foxes do not pick up items when gamerule mobGriefing is set to false.

  Breeding
    When sweet berries or glow berries are used on two foxes, the foxes breed, producing a baby fox. If a red fox is bred with an white fox, the baby has a 50% chance of being either red or white.

  Trust
    Breeding two adults with sweet berries or glow berries produces a kit that trusts the player. The baby fox trusts the player that bred it and does not flee from that player as it grows up; however, because baby foxes also follow nearby adult foxes, an adult running away from the player may cause the baby to do the same. Naturally spawned kits do not trust players. Foxes attack specific mobs that hurt a player they trust. A lead can be useful during this time to keep the baby fox from fleeing until it has finished maturing to an adult itself, or the player can simply kill the adult foxes with a ranged weapon. A fox that trusts the player flees from wolves and polar bears unless the wolf or polar bear attacks the player, in which case the fox attacks in defense of the player. When attacking phantoms, foxes do not jump to attack. A trusting fox does not attack a tamed wolf unless the fox doesn't trust the player who tamed the wolf. Foxes that trust the player attack zombies, drowned, husks, zombified piglins, skeletons, wither skeletons, strays, phantoms, silverfish, endermites, spiders, cave spiders, vexes, vindicators, evokers, pillagers, ravagers, blazes, endermen, goats and pandas, when those mobs attack the player. They do not attack any mob the player attacks, unlike tamed wolves. They also do not attack zombie villagers despite the fact that they are a zombie variant. Trusting foxes retreat from polar bears and wolves but not tamed wolves. A tamed wolf whose owner attacks a trusting fox also attacks the fox.

