Overview
    A frog is a passive mob found in swamps. Frogs eat small slimes and magma cubes. A frog can produce one of three kinds of Froglights from eating magma cubes, depending on the type of frog.

Spawning
    Groups of two to five frogs can spawn in swamp and mangrove swamp biomes. Frogs can also be spawned by growing from tadpoles.
There are three frog variants, determined by the biome in which the tadpole grew up: Temperate frogs Warm frogs Cold frogs[n 2] Notes

Drops
    Frogs drop 1–3 when killed by a player or tamed wolf, while 1–7 is dropped upon successful breeding.

Behavior
    On land, frogs slowly wander, jumping at random. They can jump 8 blocks high and take 5 less damage from falling than most other mobs. They prefer jumping on lily pads and big dripleaves, and usually jump to blocks that are higher up. In water, frogs move much faster. They generally swim upward and remain at the water's surface, but swim downward if lured by a player. Frogs cannot be hurt by drowning. Occasionally, they may croak and inflate their vocal sac.

  Breeding
    Frogs follow any player holding a slimeball within 6 blocks of them. Feeding two frogs a slimeball causes them to enter love mode, causing one of the frogs to become pregnant, similar to turtles. The pregnant frog then searches for a water block with at least one adjacent water block (flowing or source) with air above to lay frogspawn. This spawn later hatches into tadpoles, which subsequently grow into frogs. Unlike all other mobs with baby variants, the tadpole is treated by the game as a completely different mob from the frog.

  Attacking
    Frogs attack by using their tongue to pull certain mobs into their mouth, whereupon the mob instantly despawns without a death animation. Frogs attack small slimes, which drop slimeballs when killed. Frogs also attack small magma cubes, leaving a froglight block. When the magma cube gets targeted, the frog walks toward it at a faster pace before attacking. The color of froglight that drops depends on the type of frog that attacks the magma cube:

    Frog type,Froglight color
    Temperate,Ochre
    Warm,Pearlescent
    Cold,Verdant

