Overview
    The glow squid is an aquatic passive mob found in dark underwater areas, typically in ocean depths, ravines and underground lakes. The glow squid is a variety of squid. It has an aqua luminescent texture. They were ported to vanilla Minecraft from Minecraft Earth.

Spawning
    In Java Edition, schools of 2 to 4 glow squid spawn in water in complete darkness in the Overworld (except deep dark biome) below layer 30. Unlike most other aquatic mobs, they do not require water or waterlogged blocks above or below their spawning space. In Bedrock Edition, glow squid spawn anywhere where there's water underground, in schools of 2 to 4 (below a solid roof categorized as cave spawn, while squids are surface spawns) anywhere below Y=30. Glow squid have a 5% chance of spawning as babies.

Drops
  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Glow Ink Sac,100%,1–3,1–4,1–5,1–6

Behavior
    Glow squid wander around aimlessly in three dimensions as long as they are in the water, opening and closing their tentacles, which gives them the appearance of pushing themselves leisurely forward. Glow squid suffocate when out of water, dying after 15 seconds (300 game ticks). While on land, they remain stationary until they suffocate. They can take fall damage and burn like any other land mob, but they cannot drown. When out of the water, glow squid are resistant to knockback. Glow squid are passive toward the player. They are not attracted to light and do not deliberately interact with the player. Glow squid sometimes beach themselves and suffocate on the banks of rivers and occasionally on ocean beaches. These behaviors are shared with traditional squid. Glow squid appear to glow, but do not produce light. They stop glowing for 5 seconds (100 game ticks) when harmed. Glow squid cannot swim in lava, even if inflicted with Fire Resistance. They simply pass through the lava and behave as if on land. Unlike land-based mobs, glow squid can swim against a current and not get pushed by it.‌‌[Java Edition  only] Guardians and elder guardians attack glow squid in the same manner as they attack a player or regular squid. Axolotls also attack glow squid. Glow squid are affected by the Impaling enchantment — in Java Edition because they are aquatic mobs; in Bedrock Edition as long as they touch water. Glow squid constantly produce crystalline particles around them. When attacked, they emit a cloud of turquoise ink particles and swim away. The particles and the ink remain remain visible when the glow squid has the Invisibility status effect. If the player is in spectator mode or is far away from glow squid (often when they are in unloaded chunks), they remain stationary. When attacked in this state, glow squid cannot flee. Although glow squid have a baby variant in Bedrock Edition, there is currently no way to breed adult glow squid.

