Overview
    Mooshrooms are mushroom-covered variants of cows exclusive to the rare mushroom fields biome.

Spawning
    Red mooshrooms can spawn in mushroom fields biomes in herds of 4–8 when the light level is 9 or higher and on mycelium. They do not naturally spawn in any other biome. A red mooshroom transforms into a brown mooshroom (and vice versa) when it is struck by lightning. Brown mooshrooms never spawn naturally. Red mooshrooms have a 5% chance of spawning as babies.

  Breeding
    A pair of mooshrooms can breed after being given wheat. A mooshroom cannot be bred with a cow unless the mooshroom has been sheared. Feeding wheat to a calf shortens its growing time by 10% of the remaining time. Baby mooshrooms do not have mushrooms on their backs. Mushrooms appear once the baby grows to an adult. Breeding two red mooshrooms has a 1⁄1024 chance to spawn a brown baby variant and vice versa. When breeding a red mooshroom and a brown mooshroom together, there is a 1⁄2 chance of getting a red baby variant, and a 1⁄2 chance of getting a brown baby variant.

Drops
  Breeding
    1–7 upon successful breeding

  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Raw Beef [d 1],100%,1–3,1–4,1–5,1–6
    ,Leather,100%,0–2,0–3,0–4,0–5

    Shearing a mooshroom drops 5 corresponding mushrooms and turns the mooshroom into a normal cow, emitting a smaller version of the
explosion particle. The mushrooms don't grow back. Like other baby animals, killing a baby mooshroom yields no items or experience.

Behavior
    Mooshrooms have the same AI behavior as cows: they walk around slowly and aimlessly, huffing and mooing occasionally. They avoid danger such as cliffs, fire, or lava, but make no attempt to stay out of water. A mooshroom follows a player holding wheat. A lightning strike on a mooshroom switches its color, from red to brown, or brown to red.

  Milking
    A mooshroom can be milked by using a bucket on it, yielding a milk bucket. Mooshrooms can also be milked using bowls to get mushroom stew. When a small flower is used on a brown mooshroom, the brown mooshroom produces a suspicious stew related to that small flower the next time it is milked with a bowl. Red mooshrooms do not produce suspicious stew. The brown mooshroom returns to producing mushroom stew until fed another small flower. The small flowers produce the suspicious stew with the following effects.

    Flower,Effect,Duration (JE),Duration (BE)
    Allium,Fire Resistance,4s,2s
    Azure Bluet,Blindness,8s,6s
    Blue Orchid Dandelion,Saturation,0.35s,0.3s
    Cornflower,Jump Boost,6s,4s
    Lily of the Valley,Poison,12s,10s
    Oxeye Daisy,Regeneration,8s,6s
    Poppy Torchflower,Night Vision,5s,4s
    Tulips,Weakness,9s,7s
    Wither Rose,Wither,8s,6s

    

