Overview
    A sniffer is a passive mob that does not spawn naturally. It spawns only by hatching from sniffer eggs. It sniffs for seeds of various unique decorative plants, seeking and digging out the seeds in dirt, grass, and moss blocks.

Spawning
    Sniffers spawn by hatching from sniffer eggs found in suspicious sand from warm ocean ruins. Breeding sniffers with torchflower seeds can also result in a sniffer egg being laid as an item.

Drops
    When killed, adult sniffers drop 1–3 experience points if killed by a player or a tamed wolf.  Snifflets, as with other baby animals, do not drop any experience. Upon successful breeding, 1–7 is dropped.

Behavior
    Sniffers wander aimlessly, avoiding hazards and obstacles. They occasionally smell their surroundings and track ancient seeds by pressing their nose to the ground. When they find a seed, they sploot[1] and use their noses to dig into the ground until they get torchflower seeds or a pitcher pod. For a sniffer to dig, it cannot be in water, on the ground, or in a boat or minecart. It cannot be doing anything else but digging. The block underneath its head must be diggable and reachable by the sniffer. The head location is defined as 2.25 blocks in front of the center of the body. The sniffer also stores its prior 20 digging locations to prevent subsequent digging at those locations. After sniffing out seeds, an eight-minute cooldown is activated before it can dig in again. The following blocks are diggable by the sniffer: Data packs from Java Edition can change this list by modifying the minecraft:sniffer_diggable_block block tag. Sniffers cannot dig on mycelium.[2]

  Breeding
    A player can breed sniffers by using torchflower seeds on two sniffers. When two adult sniffers breed, they drop a sniffer egg, after which the parents have a 5-minute cooldown before they can breed again. Sniffers are healed by 2 health points each time they are fed a torchflower seed.

  Snifflets
    A baby sniffer is called a snifflet.[3] They have a bigger head than the adult. Snifflets require 48000 game ticks to grow up into adult sniffers, which is equal to 40 minutes or two in-game days, twice as long as most other baby mobs in the game. Unlike most baby mobs, snifflets do not follow their adults.[4]

