Overview
    A book and quill is an item used to write written books.

Obtaining
  Natural generation
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Bedrock Edition
    Book and Quill,Buried treasure,Chest,1–2,"18.9% { ""item"": ""Book and Quill"", ""stacksize"": ""1–2"", ""chance"": 0.18885870814101746, ""structure"": ""Buried treasure"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Book + Ink Sac + Feather,"[[None, None, None], ['Book', 'Ink Sac', None], [None, 'Feather', None]]"

Usage
  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe,Description
    Written Book,Book and Quill + Written Book,"[['', '', ''], ['', 'Written Book', ''], ['', '', '']]","The input written book is not consumed. The new copies are ""Copy of Original"" or ""Copy of Copy"", depending on whether the input written book is ""Original"" or ""Copy of Original"". Copies of copies cannot be copied. Copied books of the same generation (""Original"", ""Copy of Original"", ""Copy of Copy"", or ""Tattered"") stack."

  Writing
    By pressing use item or long pressing screen anywhere‌[Bedrock Edition  only] while holding a book and quill in their hand, the player can open a text editor GUI. Using this GUI, the player can write a single book up to 100‌[Java Edition  only] or 50‌[Bedrock Edition  only] pages long, with up to 798 characters per page. The player can write up to 79,800‌[Java Edition  only] or 12,800‌[Bedrock Edition  only] characters inside the entire book. No page may be longer than 14 lines and each line can have a width of 114 pixels (see pixel width of each character here). The player has the ability to copy and paste into books. However, the paste does not work if the text being pasted is longer than a single page. Most Unicode characters are available in books, and they may be pasted in without issue. In singleplayer, the world pauses while a book is being edited.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Lecterns
    One can place a book and quill or a written book on an empty lectern. The lectern then emits a redstone signal depending on the displayed page in the book. On the last page, the lectern emits a signal strength of 15. This is why lecterns are listed in the "redstone" tab in the creative inventory.

  Formatting codes
    Text in a book can be styled using codes starting with the § character (section sign). If the player uses multiple codes, and continue typing past the end of a line, the next line exhibits only the last formatting code used.

  Signing
    Books can be signed by pressing the "Sign" button while in the interface. In Java Edition, when signed, a book bears the name of the player who wrote it and a title chosen upon signing. In Bedrock Edition, the book doesn't display the name of the player as the author; instead, the author can be any text the player wants. After it has been signed, it cannot be edited again – it has turned into a written book. Special characters can be used in the title, if typed from a keyboard that supports them. Alt codes do not work, and the § character cannot be typed even using a keyboard that implements it, meaning titles cannot be colored or formatted in-game. However, on Linux using the compose key to produce special characters does work. The title of the book can be up to 15 characters long[1], and the player cannot paste into a title. If a custom name is removed from a written book, it reverts back to the title it was given during the signing process.

  Chiseled bookshelf
    Using the chiseled bookshelf while having a book and quill in the main hand puts the book inside the chiseled bookshelf.

  Trading
    In Bedrock Edition, expert-level librarian villagers buy 2 books and quills for one emerald. Book and quill is offered in two item slots due to being non-stackable. In Java Edition, expert-level librarian villagers have a 50% chance to buy 2 books and quills for one emerald. The amount of books and quills needed is supposed to be 2, but due to the item being non-stackable, only one is needed for the trade.[2]

