Overview
    Crafting is the process of constructing tools, items, and blocks in Minecraft. Items can be crafted using the inventory, a crafting table, or automaticly using a crafter. Players can craft by moving items from their inventory to the crafting grid, arranging them according to a recipe. A 2×2 crafting grid can be accessed from the player's inventory and a 3×3 grid can be accessed by using a crafting table. Items crafted in the 2×2 grid can also be crafted in the crafting table. You will need the 3x3 table to craft complex items, the 2x2 is recommended to craft the crafting table.

Crafting system
  Basic crafting
    Players in Creative, Survival, Adventure, or Spectator will have access to the 2×2 crafting grid from their inventory screen. Small crafting recipes that are at most 2×2 can be made there. These include wooden planks, sticks, crafting tables, torches, and some shapeless recipes. To craft items using a 3×3 grid, create a crafting table with 4 wooden planks, place it in the world, and press use while facing it. This brings up an interface with a 3×3 crafting grid, which the player can use to craft any crafting recipe in the game. There is also a Recipe book where you can access all the crafting recipes. Some recipes do not require their ingredients to be arranged in a specific way on the crafting grid. These are commonly known as shapeless recipes. For example, players can craft a fermented spider eye by placing its ingredients anywhere within the grid or like a flint and steel can be crafted in any orientation. On the other hand, many recipes must have their ingredients placed in the correct relative positions on the crafting grid. These are commonly known as shaped recipes. Ingredients in shaped recipes can be ‘moved’ up, down, left, or right. They can also be flipped side-ways. For example, a 3×1 recipe, such as bread, can be made using the top, middle, or bottom row of the 3×3 grid, and a bow may be made with the strings placed on the left instead of on the right. There are recipes that may not be moved or mirrored in this way. These are commonly known as fixed recipes. For example, dyes in banner recipes must be specifically placed to achieve the desired pattern.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] Fixed recipes can be added by data packs or mods. Unlike other in-game actions such as smelting, brewing, and enchanting, crafting is completely silent.

  Automated crafting
    In the 1.21 update crafting will become automatable using the crafter. The simplest way to do this is for the player to add the items for the craft into the crafter manually, however this process can itself be automated using hoppers. In order to control which slots the hopper puts the item into it is possible to disable certain slots to prevent the input of items. When items are put into a crafter automatically they fill every enabled slot equally from left to right and top to bottom, in that order. Automated crafting is very useful in both storage systems and automated farms, as it provides a way to automatically craft items and blocks that once required manual input.

  Recipe book
    The recipe book is a mechanic in Minecraft that serves as a catalog of recipes and as a crafting guide. It shows every crafting recipe that the player has had materials for. Crafting recipes are organized in several different categories. The categories differ between Java and Bedrock. On Bedrock, categories consist of craftable items from each Creative inventory tab. On Java, the categories are as follows:

  Recipe system
    Recipes, including crafting recipes, can be configured by data packs in Java Edition or add-ons in Bedrock Edition.

