Overview
    The ender dragon is a giant flying hostile boss mob found when first entering the End. It is the largest naturally spawning mob in the game. It guards access to the end gateways that provide entry to the outer end islands in addition to the exit portal that allows return to the Overworld as well as access to the end credits of Minecraft. Its attacks involve charging at the player and its one-of-a-kind dragon acid attacks.

Spawning
  Initial spawning
    The ender dragon spawns 20 game ticks (1 second) after an entity first arrives in the End, along with the bedrock frame for the exit portal.

  Re-summoning
    Players can re-summon the dragon by placing four end crystals on the edges of the exit portal, one on each side. If the exit portal is ever destroyed, end crystals can be placed on obsidian blocks at the precise location where the original exit portal once stood. When it is re-summoned, the four end crystals point to the tops of each pillar setting off a series of explosions that resets the obsidian pillars, iron bars, and end crystals. The top of each pillar explodes, destroying any player-placed blocks. Eventually, all of the end crystals point at the coordinates of (0.0, 128, 0.0) and the ender dragon spawns there. The four crystals placed around the exit portal then explode. If the player does not pick up the dragon egg and starts to re-summon the dragon, the dragon egg disappears. If the dragon goes through an end gateway, another immediately spawns at (0, 128, 0) while the other dragon flies to (0, 128, 0).

Drops
    After the ender dragon is slain for the first time, the following events take place: When a re-summoned ender dragon is slain, the same events occur except that only 500 experience points are dropped‌[Java Edition  only] and no more than 20 gateway portals are generated. The dragon egg appears only the first time the ender dragon is slain in Java Edition, and the first and second time in Bedrock Edition; it does not appear after any subsequent dragon slaying.

Behavior
    During the battle with the ender dragon, unique music called "Boss" plays, the edges of the screen darkens, black fog appears, and chunks around the exit portal are constantly loaded regardless of render distance. These happen as long as there is at least one player within a Euclidean distance of 192 blocks from (0.0, 128, 0.0). The ender dragon has a light purple health bar that appears at the top of the player's screen. Its health is frequently restored by nearby end crystals, indicated by a magical white beam connecting the dragon and the crystal. Destroying an end crystal that is actively healing the dragon causes 10 damage to it. The dragon can take damage only from explosions and player-based damage, and takes damage of (1⁄4 × normal damage + 1) when hit on any part that is not its head, making it the most resilient mob in the game. Suffocation is completely non-applicable, as it either phases through or immediately destroys any block it touches. The dragon is immune to all status effects, except for Instant Damage - if it's player-based damage (the player threw a splash or lingering potion of Harming). Hovewer, landing a potion shot can be tricky. By using the F3 + B shortcut, the dragon's bounding box appears.‌[Java Edition  only] However, it cannot be damaged at just any spot in this large volume: eight green sub-hitboxes are also shown, which indicate the locations where the dragon can take damage: the tail, body, head, and wings.

  Movement
    The ender dragon is a flying mob, which cannot actually stand on the ground. It flies around the end main island while fighting the player. The dragon can pass through all blocks, destroying almost all types of them, but can still be affected by flowing water, lava and bubble column. Blocks not destroyed are those that naturally generate on the central End island, such as end stone, and those that are intended to be indestructible, such as bedrock. In Java Edition, these blocks are marked under the dragon_immune tag, with the exception of light blocks and fire, which are marked as dragon_transparent. Destroyed blocks are not dropped, although containers (such as chests and dispensers, but not shulker boxes) drop their contents.

  Attacking
    The dragon never targets any entity but the player, although other mobs may turn hostile to the dragon when hit, and the dragon may sometimes retaliate against other mobs if it takes damage to a projectile. Any entities hit by its wings are dealt 5 damage (or 10 damage if hit by its head), and in Java Edition, are thrown into the air, sometimes to fatal heights or even off the island. Neither of these effects is applied for 1⁄2 second after the dragon takes damage. The ender dragon has four main states of behavior: Guarding Targeting
Whenever the dragon finds itself less than 10 blocks or more than 150 blocks from its current target, it attempts to choose a new target. When damaged it targets a point just behind itself, causing it to turn away and choose a new target. Strafing Diving Perching Dragon's Breath
Unless the player is in Peaceful difficulty, after 1.25 seconds, if a player is within 20 blocks of the exit portal structure, the dragon roars and use its 3-second breath attack, damaging players similarly to a lingering potion of Harming. An area of visible particles in the shape of a horizontal disc one block tall and 5 to 6 blocks in diameter appears where the breath attack strikes, either on the ground or floating in the air, at whatever point the breath attack struck a block. The harming effect zone where the player takes damage is confined to a smaller area in the center this visible cloud, covering about 3 to 4 blocks.
The harming effect portion of the purple clouds emitted from the dragon's breath attack can be collected in a glass bottle to obtain dragon's breath. Each bottle of dragon's breath collected removes one block from the lingering damage zone of the breath attack. The visible clouds remain for 3 seconds whether the dragons breath is bottled or not. By rapidly collecting all of the harmful blocks, usually around three, even a direct hit from the breath attack can be mostly and even entirely negated before the player suffers any damage.
Charge
If the player is not near the portal within 5 seconds of the dragon's landing, it charges at players within 150 blocks.
Take-off
After four consecutive breath attacks, or if the dragon fails to locate a player within 150 blocks, it takes off from its perch. It always takes off in Peaceful difficulty, making it difficult to land melee hits.
The dragon resumes circling after this state.
Escape
If cumulative damage taken while perched exceeds 50 × 25, the dragon takes off and resets the damage accumulator. The accumulator is not reset if it does not take enough damage.
The dragon resumes circling after this state. In Java Edition, when the dragon finally takes a fatal blow, it flies toward the exit portal structure before dying, unless it cannot find it within 150 blocks, or it is inside blocks.

Dragon Fireball
    Dragon fireballs are special fireballs that the ender dragon fires while strafing. They cannot be deflected unlike ghast fireballs, and they do no impact damage. Instead, they deposit purple effect clouds across the ground that damages players the same way a lingering potion of Harming does. This means that the ender dragon's fireballs deal magic damage, which ignores any damage reduction that comes from the player's unenchanted armor.  However its damage does get reduced by armor enchanted with the Protection enchantment. The purple effect cloud's hitbox slowly grows larger in diameter until it disappears. As with its close-ranged breath attack, the purple clouds can be bottled to obtain the dragon's breath. Unlike lingering potions of Harming, the effect cloud does not shrink when affecting mobs.

