Overview
    The wither is a player-constructed and highly destructive undead hostile boss mob that can hover in mid-air and fire barrages of explosive wither skulls at any living thing. It is the only source of nether stars, which are used to craft beacons.

Spawning
    The wither is spawned by placing 4 blocks of soul sand and/or soul soil in a T shape (see image on the right in the "Behavior" section), and putting 3 wither skeleton skulls on top of the three upper blocks. The last block placed must be one of the three skulls and can be placed by the player or a dispenser. Air blocks are required on either side of the base soul sand or soul soil under the upper blocks (non-solid blocks such as grass and flowers prevent the wither from spawning). The building pattern can have any orientation (including horizontal and upside-down) as well as the skulls; the wither always spawns at the foot of the pattern. When the wither has successfully spawned, it is angered and creates an explosion around itself. Like all other hostile mobs, the wither despawns when the difficulty is changed to Peaceful. Building the wither spawning structure in Peaceful difficulty does not spawn anything.

Drops
  On death
    Item,Roll Chance,Quantity (Roll Chance)
    Default,Looting I,Looting II,Looting III
    ,Nether Star,100%,1,1,1,1

    In Java Edition the dropped nether star takes ten minutes to despawn, though in Bedrock Edition the nether star never despawns. It cannot be destroyed by explosions, although it can be destroyed by a cactus, fire, or lava. In Java Edition it can also be destroyed by a falling anvil. A wither also drops 50 when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.

Behavior
    When spawned, the wither grows larger in size as its health bar fills up. While in this state, the wither is invulnerable, and neither moves nor attacks. When this state ends (after 11 seconds), the wither creates a large explosion centered on itself, destroying nearby blocks and dealing up to 68 × 34 damage to nearby mobs/players, depending on difficulty. It is the largest individual explosion that the player can cause In Java Edition without commands, with a blast power of 7, more than that of a charged creeper or an end crystal. It is accompanied by a loud gruesome sound that can be heard equally from across the map and in all dimensions‌[JE  only].[1] After this, the wither attacks nearby mobs and can take damage. The wither has the greatest natural health of all mobs in Minecraft (exceeded by the warden in Java Edition 1.19, while Bedrock Edition's wither still has the highest health), at 300 × 150 in Java Edition or 600 × 300 in Bedrock Edition. The wither is immune to fire, lava, drowning damage and freezing. Like other undead mobs, the wither is harmed by the Instant Health effect and healed by the Instant Damage effect as well as affected by weapons with the Smite enchantment. It is immune to all other status effects, like the ender dragon. Upon taking damage, the wither breaks all blocks within a 3×4×3 area around it, including blast-resistant blocks like obsidian, crying obsidian, and ancient debris, dropping them as items if possible. The wither is the only mob in the game that can destroy obsidian. The wither cannot break the following blocks: In Java Edition, these blocks are listed under the wither_immune tag. The wither's block-breaking behavior makes suffocation ineffective under most circumstances. However, the blocks listed above, as well as some natural structures that include them (like exit portal), can be used to suffocate the wither due to their wither immunity. The wither is hostile toward all mobs except: If the wither is idle, it simply hovers and is unable to gain altitude. On Normal or Hard difficulty, it fires blue skulls in random directions until it finds a target. The color of the wither's bossbar depends on the Edition: dark purple on Java Edition, or light purple on Bedrock Edition. It appears only when a player is looking in the wither's direction, including through walls. All withers display a boss bar on the screen. A renamed wither displays it's changed name above it's boss bar. The sky darkens when the wither spawns (a kind of fog).

  Java Edition
    Upon noticing a mob or a player, the wither hovers above it and rapidly shoots black wither skulls. Each head fires independently, allowing a wither to attack up to three different mobs/players at the same time. The main head controls the wither's movement and has a 0.1% chance to shoot a blue wither skull instead of the default black one. Whenever a wither kills another mob, a wither rose is planted if the ground is grass block, dirt, coarse dirt, moss block, mud, netherrack, soul sand, or soul soil on Java Edition, or otherwise dropped as an item at that mob's location; however, it may be destroyed by other wither skulls. Wither roses are planted/dropped even when the game rule doMobLoot is set to false.[3] The wither has a passive regeneration rate of 1 every 20 ticks (1 second), and a direct killing blow on a target instantly heals 5. When its health drops below half (150 × 75), the wither gains a natural "wither armor" effect, which makes it immune to damage from arrows and thrown tridents and causes it to fly at the same height as the target. The armor disappears if it regenerates above half health.

  Bedrock Edition
    Upon noticing a player or mob, the wither flies to a random location and hovers in place. It shoots 3 black wither skulls and one blue wither skull before flying to another location. The time between each shot decreases as the wither loses health. On Normal difficulty or higher, if the wither has targeted an entity but cannot find a location to pathfind to, it shoots random blue skulls in a random direction along with the skulls directed toward the target. At half health, it causes a large explosion that spawns 3 wither skeletons (except on Easy difficulty), as well as gaining wither armor. Instead of flying to a random location, it dashes toward its target, destroying blocks and damaging mobs in its path. It also fires up to 4 skulls per burst: three black skulls followed by one blue skull. It has different spawn and death animations, both of which involve the wither exploding. Wither roses always drop as an item when the wither kills a mob. Wither roses are dropped even when the game rule doMobLoot is set to false.[4] The wither rose inflicts the Wither effect for a couple of seconds when stepped on. The sky light level drops to 11 and dark clouds appear from the moment the wither spawns until it is dead, preventing zombies, skeletons, and drowned from burning in sunlight. On Easy difficulty, the wither does not inflict the wither effect or summon wither skeletons. Withers will retain their anti-projectile armor after healing it over 1/2 of its total HP (301 × 150.5), though it disappears after the game is restarted.[5]

Wither Skull
    When attacking, the wither rapidly fires explosive projectiles called wither skulls, which look like its own heads, at its target. There are two types of wither skulls: a fast-moving black one, and a slower blue one. If either type of wither skull hits a player or mob, it does 8 damage on Normal difficulty. It also inflicts Wither II for 10 seconds on Normal difficulty and 40 seconds on Hard, which turns the player's hearts black () and drains health, similarly to Poison. However, unlike Poison, it can kill the player. Like other status effects, the Wither effect can be cured by drinking milk. In Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition, the blue skull can be deflected by hitting it with an empty hand, weapon, tool, or throwable projectiles such as tridents, arrows, snowballs, and throwable potions.

