Overview
    Frost Walker is an enchantment to boots that creates frosted ice blocks when walking over water, and causes the wearer to be immune to damage from certain blocks such as campfires and magma blocks when stepped on.

Obtaining
    Frost Walker is a treasure enchantment; it can be obtained from jungle temple and stronghold chest loot, fishing, raid drops‌[BE  only], or trading with a librarian of any level.

Usage
    If moving on ground (not falling, jumping, or flying), any still water blocks with air above within a circle radius‌[Java Edition  only] or square radius ‌[Bedrock Edition  only] of 2 + level around the block being moved to transforms into frosted ice. This works only if the player is on the ground.‌[Java Edition  only] The water blocks must also be on the same level as the block being moved to in order to become ice. Continuous motion is required for ice to remain when light levels would otherwise cause it to melt. When a player stops walking on the ice created by the enchantment, the ice gradually melts from around and under the player (at which point the player falls into the water). In addition, the ice created from Frost Walker lasts longer during the night because there is no sunlight to melt it. Frost Walker also eliminates all damage from magma blocks and campfires, but not lava. The boots do not take durability damage while on these blocks. If an armor stand equipped with Frost Walker boots is moved, it converts nearby water sources to frosted ice in a similar way as a player wearing Frost Walker boots does.[1] Also, enchanted boots with Frost Walker can be applied on foxes when held.‌[BE  only]

Incompatibilities
    The Frost Walker and Depth Strider enchantments are mutually exclusive, meaning only one can be added to any given item in survival. When added through use of commands, both enchantments function as normal.

Data values
  ID
    Java Edition:

    Name,Identifier,Translation key
    Frost Walker,frost_walker,enchantment.minecraft.frost_walker

    Bedrock Edition:

    Name,Identifier,Numeric ID,Translation key
    Frost Walker,frost_walker,25,enchantment.frostwalker

Achievements
    Icon,Achievement,In-game description,Actual requirements (if different),Gamerscore earned,Trophy type (PS4)
    PS4,Other
    let it go,let it go,"Let It Go! { ""anchor"": """", ""title"": ""Let It Go!"", ""icon"": """", ""title"": ""Let It Go!"", ""description"": ""Using the Frost Walker boots, walk on at least 1 block on frozen water on a deep ocean
 "", ""requirements"": ""
 "", ""gamerscore"": ""20G
 "", ""trophytype"": ""Bronze
"", ""rewards"": """" }","Using the Frost Walker boots, walk on at least 1 block on frozen water on a deep ocean",—,20G,Bronze

