Overview
    Projectile Protection is an armor enchantment that reduces damage taken from projectiles.

Usage
    Projectile Protection reduces damage from arrows, thrown tridents, shulker bullets, llama spit, and blaze fireballs. It also reduces direct impact damage from ghast fireballs and wither skulls, but not from their explosions. Despite being projectiles, damage from splash potions of harming, dragon fireballs, firework rockets, or sonic booms are not considered to deal projectile damage, and are therefore unaffected by Projectile Protection. The formula for damage reduction by projectiles is level × 8%, meaning for every additional level another 8% of the damage is absorbed. The highest level (Projectile Protection IV) absorbs 32% (4 × 8%) of the damage inflicted by projectiles. Unlike the Blast Protection and Fire Protection enchantments, Projectile Protection offers no side effects outside of damage reduction. Damage reduction from Protection, Fire Protection, Feather Falling, Blast Protection, and Projectile Protection stacks up to an upper limit cap of 80%.   This upper limit can be reached with a total of 10 levels of Projectile Protection on the users armor, or with 12 levels of Protection combined with 4 levels of Projectile Protection.

Incompatibilities
    Protection, Blast Protection, Fire Protection, and Projectile Protection are mutually exclusive.  Attempting to combine these enchantments with an anvil will delete the enchantment in the upgrade slot and replace it with the enchantment in the sacrifice slot.  However, if commands are used to force two or more of these enchantments on the same item, the effects stack.

Data values
  ID
    Java Edition:

    Name,Identifier,Translation key
    Projectile Protection,projectile_protection,enchantment.minecraft.projectile_protection

    Bedrock Edition:

    Name,Identifier,Numeric ID,Translation key
    Projectile Protection,projectile_protection,4,enchantment.protect.projectile

