Overview
    From time to time, Minecraft world generation is changed to introduce new features. Some of these changes are terrain-breaking (like Java Edition 1.8), while others keep the terrain roughly the same in terms of altitude. In either case, you may want to clear out chunks of your old world, so that the new world-gen kicks in to give you the exciting stuff. This tutorial explains how to delete chunks in an older world for them to regenerate in a newer version, so that you won't need to travel thousands of blocks into unexplored terrain to see the new terrains if the player has a huge world. This action is commonly known as chunk resetting.

Non-breaking update
    An example for a non-breaking update is Java Edition 1.13. This version vastly changes the world generation of oceans, swamps and rivers by adding features like shipwrecks, coral reefs, and seagrass. However, the new terrain generation doesn't affect the biome type or terrain altitude (with a few exceptions, as u/bdm68 pointed out.)[1] In the case of 1.13, we want to remove all chunks with an ocean, river, or swamp biome so that they regerate with the new features in 1.13. Since the biome types and altitude didn't change in 1.13, the regenerated chunks will seamlessly blend into the existing landscape, but they will generate with the new underwater features.

  Using MCA Selector (any Java)
    MCA selector is a tool to do chunk-level operations on a Minecraft world, and that also includes deleting and filtering. It has a filter interface for you to check for coordinate, block type, biomes, as well as for chunks of a certain data version. It works on any version of Java Edition. You can follow these steps to reduce world file size or delete chunks without accidentally removing any important part of the world: Open your world in MCA Selector, Click on "Tools" -> "Filter chunks", Replace the line xPos <= 100 AND xPos >= -100 AND zPos <= 100 AND zPos >= -100 with InhabitedTime = "0", press Enter then click "OK", Now the generated chunks that no player has ever been near are selected. You can delete them by hover at "Selection" -> Delete selected chunks -> OK

  Using MCEdit (1.7.2-1.12.2)
    MCEdit has a plugin to select chunks by biome so that we can delete them. It is also possible to protect regions of your world, in case you need to preserve existing builds in those biomes.[2] As this method depends on MCEdit, it only works for worlds opened in Java Edition 1.7.2 to 1.12.2. If you have opened the world in 1.13, you need to retrieve the older save from the backups folder. The plugin inspects each chunk of your world, and decides for each chunk whether it can be deleted. In Minecraft, a single chunk can contain different biomes. For example, along the shore of an ocean, a lot of chunks will contain ocean biomes as well as beach biomes. Sometimes it is not obvious how these cases should be handled, so the plugin can be used in one of two modes: Aggressive mode deletes chunks that contain any of the selected biomes. For example, if you decide to delete all river biomes in aggressive mode, the plugin will delete a chunk as soon as it contains a single block of river biome, no matter which other biomes are present in that chunk., Cautious mode only deletes chunks that contain nothing but the selected biomes. For example, if you tell the plugin to delete ocean and beach biomes, then it will only delete chunks in which each block is part of an ocean biome or a beach biome. If there is a single block in that chunk that is neither in an ocean nor in a beach biome, then it won't delete that chunk. Here is an example to illustrate the difference: There are four biomes present here: plains (green), beaches (yellow), rivers (light blue), and oceans (dark blue). If you were to delete all rivers, beaches, and oceans with the plugin, then all purple striped chunks would be deleted no matter which mode you use. But in aggressive mode, also the red striped chunks would be deleted. In general, aggressive mode will lead to better results, especially if you want to regenerate river biomes. However, you may need to protect more regions of your world. To protect regions of your world, you will need to modify the plugin by writing some Python code. Guides are provided so don't be worried. The whole process may take a couple of hours.

  Using the tools
    Once you decided which biomes you want to delete, make a (mental) list of things you built in those biomes, or near the edges of those biomes. Depending on the mode you use, the plugin may delete chunks even if they contain biomes that you did not want to delete. If you haven't built anything in those biomes that you want to keep, skip to the next section. Otherwise, this section will teach you how you can modify the plugin to protect those builds. The idea is similar with MCA selector, but only a top view is provided. You may want to go into the game (in a backup) so that you can use the x-z coordinates from within. Alternatively, it suffices in most cases to check for a 64×64 radius from a crafting table (Palette), the quintessential marker for player activity. There are two regions that you want to protect. The first one is your base. The box of chunks that encloses your base has chunk (-1, 0, 4) in its upper left corner, and chunk (3, 0, 12) in its lower right corner. So, we write 'chunk_region(-1, 4, 3, 12),' to define this region., The second one is a mob farm in the middle of the ocean. The entire farm fits into a single chunk, namely chunk (33, 0, 15). In this case, the upper left and lower right "corner" are the same chunk, so we write 'chunk_region(33, 15, 33, 15),'. This is what the modified section of the plugin would look like: If you're having trouble with this section, feel free to message the creator on Reddit. Be sure to include the modified part of the plugin in your comment. If MCEdit shows an error message, include the content of the error message, too. In MCA selector, no code modification is needed. You simply need to roll the protected bits into the query parameter. For the above, you would do: For MCEdit: For MCA Selector: At this point, your world is ready to be opened in 1.13. Take a few minutes to check your world to verify that everything went well.

Breaking change
    It is much harder to find a smooth transition among breaking-change versions. A tool called mcmerge (Java 1.7 -> 1.8-1.12) can help by adding rivers around the transition, but you have to do some preparations on the old map before using it. If you don't want the preparation, bestofboth (Java 1.7 -> 1.8-1.12) simply looks for cliffs and fill them all in.

  Splicing by Y
    The changes introduced in Java Edition 1.18 additionally adds the use case of splicing the old and new worlds by Y value, so that an older map receives additional underground space. This can be done by pasting the 16x16x16 sections in from a new world of the same seed. MCA Selector allows for dealing with sections in this way.[3] In normal situations, JE 1.18+ is able to make the terrain blend where new and old chunks connect in the 0~256 Y range, so that the change is not quite "breaking". There will be a disconnect in terms of bedrock height, making it possible to mine into the void at these boundaries.

Gallery
    


The ship on the right was built in pre-1.12, but now there's sea grass in 1.13 growing right next to it.




