Overview
    An azure bluet is a flower that can be crafted into light gray dye.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    An azure bluet can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. An azure bluet also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Azure Bluet
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Azure bluets generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in  plains,  sunflower plains,  flower forest, and  meadow biomes as part of vegetation features. In Java Edition, they are also technically capable of growing in dripstone caves and deep dark biomes, though it is very unlikely due to lack of grass blocks in these biomes. Natural azure bluets are found in plains villages. Potted azure bluets can also be generated in woodland mansions.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a plains, sunflower plains, flower forest, meadow, dripstone caves, or deep dark biome, azure bluets have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area. When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a plains, sunflower plains, or flower forest biome, azure bluets have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 7×5×7 area. When bone meal is applied to an azure bluet that has been placed on top of a grass block, more azure bluets appear on top of nearby grass blocks. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Endermen can pick up azure bluets, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it.

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell an azure bluet for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, azure bluets can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Azure bluets can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Light Gray Dye,Azure Bluet,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using an azure bluet to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Blindness effect that lasts 8 seconds in Java Edition and 6 seconds in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Azure Bluet,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with azure bluets, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Azure bluets can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of an azure bluet have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing an azure bluet into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of azure bluets yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

