Overview
    A barrel is a solid block used to store items. Unlike a chest, it cannot connect to other barrels. It also serves as a fisherman's job site block.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Barrels can be mined with or without any tool, but axes are the quickest.

    Block,Barrel
    Hardness,2.5
    Tool,Axe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,3.75
    Wooden,1.9
    Stone,0.95
    Iron,0.65
    Diamond,0.5
    Netherite,0.45
    Golden,0.35

  Natural generation
    Empty barrels can generate naturally in fisher cottages in villages. Up to 3 barrels can generate in a village fisher cottage.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Barrel,Village,Fisherman's chest,1–3,"24.2% { ""item"": ""Barrel"", ""stacksize"": ""1–3"", ""chance"": 0.2418426461183103, ""structure"": ""Village"", ""container"": ""Fisherman's chest"" }"

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Any Planks + Any Wooden Slab,"[['Oak Planks', 'Oak Slab', 'Oak Planks'], ['Oak Planks', None, 'Oak Planks'], ['Oak Planks', 'Oak Slab', 'Oak Planks']]"

Usage
    Barrels can be moved by pistons,‌[Bedrock Edition  only] water and lava flow around barrels without affecting them. Lava can create fire in air blocks next to barrels as if the barrel was flammable, but the barrel does not actually catch fire and can't be burned.

  Container
    Barrels have a container inventory with 27 slots, which is the same as a single chest. Unlike chests, a barrel can be placed below a solid block and still be able to be opened.
They can be filled by droppers and both filled and emptied by hoppers. When broken, barrels drop the contents of the container and the barrel item itself. To open the barrel interface, use the Use Item control. To move items between the barrel inventory and the player inventory or hotbar while the barrel interface is open, drag or shift-click the items. Holding ⇧ Shift and double-clicking while holding an item moves all items of the type clicked on in or out of the barrel to the extent that space is available for them.‌[Java Edition  only] To exit the barrel interface, use the Esc control. By default, the interface of a barrel is labeled "Barrel". A barrel's GUI label can be changed by naming the barrel in an anvil before placing it or by using the /data command‌[Java Edition  only] (for example, to label a chest at (0,64,0) as "Bonus Barrel!", use /data merge block 0 64 0 {CustomName:'"Bonus Barrel!"'}). In Java Edition, a barrel can be "locked" by setting its Lock tag using the /data command. If a barrel's Lock tag is not blank, the barrel cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item with the same name as the Lock tag's text. For example, to lock a barrel at (0,64,0) so that the barrel cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item named "Barrel Key", use /data merge block 0 64 0 {Lock:"Barrel Key"}.

  Changing profession
    If a village has a barrel that has not been claimed by a villager, any villager who does not have a chosen job site block has a chance to change their profession into a fisherman.‌

  Fuel
    Barrels can be used as a fuel in furnaces, smelting 1.5 items per block.

  Note Blocks
    Barrels can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass" sounds.

  Piglins
    Piglins become hostile toward players who open or break barrels.

