Overview
    A blue orchid is a flower that generates exclusively in swamp biomes. It can be crafted into light blue dye.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A blue orchid can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. A blue orchid also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Blue Orchid
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Blue orchids generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in  swamps as part of vegetation features. Potted blue orchids can also be found in woodland mansions.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a swamp biome, blue orchids have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15‌[JE  only]/7×5×7‌[BE  only] area. In Bedrock Edition, when bone meal is applied to a blue orchid that has been placed on top of a grass block, more blue orchids appear on top of nearby grass blocks. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Endermen can pick up blue orchids, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it.

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell a blue orchid for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, blue orchids can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Blue orchids can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Light Blue Dye,Blue Orchid,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using a blue orchid to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Saturation effect that lasts 0.35 seconds in Java Edition and 0.3 seconds in Bedrock Edition. The Saturation effect restores an additional 7 () hunger and 14 saturation in Java Edition, or 6 () hunger and 12 saturation in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Blue Orchid,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with blue orchids, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Blue orchids can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of a blue orchid have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing a blue orchid into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of blue orchids yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

