Overview
    A campfire is a block that can be used to cook food, pacify bees, act as a spread-proof light source, smoke signal or damaging trap block.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Campfires can be mined with any tool, or without a tool, but axes are the fastest. A regular campfire drops 2‌[JE  only] or 4‌[BE  only] charcoal. If mined with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch, the campfire instead drops itself as an item. In Bedrock Edition, a campfire can also be broken by pushing it with a piston or sticky piston. Pistons cannot move or break campfires in Java Edition.

    Block,Campfire
    Hardness,2
    Tool,Axe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,3
    Wooden,1.5
    Stone,0.75
    Iron,0.5
    Diamond,0.4
    Netherite,0.35
    Golden,0.25

  Natural generation
    Campfires can generate in taiga and snowy taiga‌[Bedrock Edition  only] villages. Campfires also generate in camps inside ancient cities, beneath a pile of blue, light blue and cyan wool blocks.

  Crafting
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Campfire,Stick + Coal + Any Log or Stem or Any Stripped Log or Stem or Any Wood or Hyphae or Any Stripped Wood or Hyphae,"[[None, 'Stick', None], ['Stick', 'Coal', 'Stick'], ['Oak Log', 'Oak Log', 'Oak Log']]"
    Campfire,Stick + Charcoal + Any Log or Stem or Any Stripped Log or Stem or Any Wood or Hyphae or Any Stripped Wood or Hyphae,"[[None, 'Stick', None], ['Stick', 'Charcoal', 'Stick'], ['Oak Log', 'Oak Log', 'Oak Log']]"

  Trading
    In Bedrock Edition, apprentice-level fisherman villagers have a 50% chance of selling a campfire for 5 emeralds. In Java Edition, apprentice-level fisherman villagers have a 2⁄3 chance of selling a campfire for 2 emeralds.

Usage
    Lit campfires emit a light level of 15. Unlike fire, campfires do not spread under any circumstances. Campfires are lit by default when placed. Campfires can be manually lit by using or dispensing flint and steel on them, shooting it with a flaming arrow, or using or dispensing fire charges, blaze fireballs, and ghast fireballs when /gamerule mobGriefing is true. In Bedrock Edition, campfires can also be lit by using an item enchanted with fire aspect, or stepping on it while burning. Campfires can be extinguished by waterlogging it (placing water in the same block space), throwing a splash water bottle on it, or using a shovel on it. Campfires cannot be extinguished from their bottom face.‌[JE  only][1] In Bedrock Edition, campfires can also be extinguished by placing a water source or allowing water to flow in the space above the campfire. As with torches, rain does not extinguish campfires.[2] Using flint and steel on the side of a waterlogged or lit campfire sets the adjacent air block on fire instead. Any items cooking on a campfire always drop when the campfire block is broken.

  Particles and smoke signals
    Campfires produce smoke particles that float up around 10 blocks before disappearing. If a hay bale is placed below, the campfire becomes a signal fire and the smoke floats up 24 blocks instead. Campfire smoke particles can partially pass through a block directly above it, but do not pass through blocks more than one block directly above it. Although a trap door is thinner than a slab, a trap door can block the smoke completely, preventing the smoke from floating up. Campfires emit extra smoke particles during rain, similar to lava. Campfires also emit occasional ember particles, similar to lava.

  Damage
    Campfires damage mobs standing on top of them even if underwater (with exceptions such as shulkers, zombified piglins or guardians), but only if lit. Campfires deal 1 (although damage immunity reduces this to once every half-second) Campfires do not cause lasting burning or destroy items. Damage taken is considered fire damage and is reduced by armor (which loses durability), the Resistance potion effects, and the Protection and Fire Protection enchantments. The player can avoid being damaged at all, either by using a potion of fire resistance or wearing Frost Walker boots. Regardless of height, all blocks prevent damage done to mobs or players above campfires. The campfire deals damage only to entities occupying its block.

  Cooking
    The player can place any of the following food items on a lit campfire by using the food item on it. Up to four food items can be placed on a single campfire, which cooks the items simultaneously. Unlike other blocks that can cook food, campfires do not require any kind of fuel to cook. On a campfire, foods produce small smoke particles, indicating they are being cooked. Food items take 30 seconds (600 ticks) to cook, compared to 10 seconds for furnaces or 5 seconds for smokers. Assuming that one uses all four slots to cook at once, the Campfire is, therefore, more efficient than furnaces (taking 10 seconds less per four items and no fuel) for cooking, but must be watched so as to pick up the food and refill it once it is done. It is slower than a smoker by about ten seconds, but its lack of fuel consumption could be seen as a worthwhile trade-off. Once finished cooking, items pop off the campfire. If the campfire is extinguished while cooking food, the remaining cooking time quickly counts back up. Food items can be placed on an unlit campfire. Other items can be placed on campfires using external editors, mods or add-ons.

  Hoppers
    Campfires do not have an external inventory. Raw food cannot be loaded into the campfire with a hopper. A hopper placed directly underneath a campfire pulls through any items dropped into the campfire. Any drops from a mob that dies in the campfire get pulled into the hopper.

  Bees
    Placing a campfire under a beehive or bee nest allows players to harvest honey bottles or honeycomb without provoking the bees.
There must be unobstructed air between the campfire and the beehive or bee nest. Carpets are an exception.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Light source
    Standard lit campfires emit a light level of 15. Like most other sources of light, campfires melt nearby snow and ice.

  Note blocks
    Campfires can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass" sounds.

  Piston interactivity
    In Bedrock Edition, pushing a campfire with a piston or sticky piston breaks it. Campfires cannot be pulled by sticky pistons. In Java Edition, pistons do not interact with campfires. Campfires neither move nor break when pushed or pulled by pistons.

