Overview
    A cartography table is a utility block used for cloning, zooming out and locking maps. It also serves as a cartographer's job site block.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A cartography table can be obtained using any tool or by hand, although an axe is fastest.

    Block,Cartography Table
    Hardness,2.5
    Tool,Axe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,3.75
    Wooden,1.9
    Stone,0.95
    Iron,0.65
    Diamond,0.5
    Netherite,0.45
    Golden,0.35

  Natural generation
    Cartography tables can generate naturally inside cartographer houses in villages. They can also generate in trail ruins.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Paper + Any Planks,"[['Paper', 'Paper', None], ['Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks', None], ['Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks', None]]"

Usage
  Zooming out, cloning, locking maps
    Cartography tables are used for zooming out, cloning, and locking maps (making them unable to be altered). They can also be used for adding pointers to maps, creating empty maps, and renaming maps.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] Below is a list of brief descriptions of all available functions of the cartography table: For more detailed information of each of these function, see Map § Usage.

    First slot,Second slot,Result
    Map,Paper,Zoomed out map (1 zoom level higher)
    Map,Empty map,Two identical maps
    Map,Glass Pane,Locked map
    Map,Compass,Locator map‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
    Empty map,Compass,Empty Locator map‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
    Paper,,Empty map‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
    Paper,Compass,Empty Locator map‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]

    Zooming out a map always starts with an existing map, not a blank map. Zooming it out makes the map aligned to the grid that would include the area of the original map. To build a set of maps such as for a map wall, a player cannot create several level 0 (base) maps at one location then zoom them out before going out into the world to fill them in; the player must start with a base map created in each area to be covered by the zoomed out map. See more discussion of map alignment at Map.

  Changing profession
    If a village has a cartography table that has not been claimed by a villager, any nearby villager who hasn't chosen a job site block has a chance to change their profession to a cartographer.

  Fuel
    A cartography table can be used as a fuel in furnaces, smelting 1.5 items per block.

  Note Blocks
    Cartography tables can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass" sounds.

