Overview
    A conduit is a beacon-like block that provides Conduit Power and attacks monsters underwater.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A conduit drops as an item when broken with any tool or by hand, but a pickaxe is the fastest way to break it. Like other precious blocks such as beacons and shulker boxes, when destroyed by an explosion, a conduit always drops as an item.

    Block,Conduit
    Hardness,3
    Tool,Pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,4.5
    Wooden,2.25
    Stone,1.15
    Iron,0.75
    Diamond,0.6
    Netherite,0.5
    Golden,0.4

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Nautilus Shell + Heart of the Sea,"[['Nautilus Shell', 'Nautilus Shell', 'Nautilus Shell'], ['Nautilus Shell', 'Heart of the Sea', 'Nautilus Shell'], ['Nautilus Shell', 'Nautilus Shell', 'Nautilus Shell']]"

Usage
  Conduit power
    When activated, conduits give the "Conduit Power" effect to all players in contact with rain or water, within a spherical range of 32-96 blocks. This effect restores oxygen, gives underwater night vision and increases mining speed by 16.7% (1/6th). Conduits also damage any hostile mobs, like drowned, guardians, and elder guardians, within a range of 8 blocks of the conduit. Conduits can be activated in any biome and at any height or depth. To activate, a conduit needs to be in the center of a 3×3×3 volume of water (source blocks, flowing water, and/or waterlogged blocks), which itself must be enclosed within an activation frame. The frame is built out of blocks in three 5×5 open squares centered on the conduit, one around each axis. Only prismarine, dark prismarine, prismarine bricks, and sea lantern blocks in the frame contribute to activation. A minimum of 16 blocks are required and produce an effective range of 32 blocks. Prismarine-type slabs (including double slabs), stairs, and walls cannot be used to activate the conduit. Any blocks (of any type) that are not part of the activation frame itself but are in the 5×5×5 outer shell likewise have no effect. Once activated, removing any blocks away from the conduit (frame blocks) does deactivate the conduit.[note 1] The effective radius of the conduit is 16 blocks for every seven blocks in the frame, though the effect does not activate until the minimum of 16 blocks is included in the build. Thus, it extends to 48 at 21 blocks, 64 at 28 blocks, 80 at 35 blocks, and 96 with a complete frame of 42 blocks. A complete frame also carries the additional advantage of attacking hostile mobs within 8 blocks of the conduit by 4 every 2 seconds, if they are in contact with water or rain.[note 2] Monsters that are attacked by the conduit:

  Light source
    Conduits emit a light level of 15, the brightest light level in the game, whether activated or not; including on land.

