Overview
    A cornflower is a flower that can be crafted into blue dye.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A cornflower can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. A cornflower also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Cornflower
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Cornflowers generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in  plains,  sunflower plains,  flower forest, and  meadow biomes as part of vegetation features. In Java Edition, they are also technically capable of growing in dripstone caves and deep dark biomes, though it is very unlikely due to lack of grass blocks in these biomes. Natural cornflowers are also found in plains villages.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a plains, sunflower plains, flower forest, meadow, dripstone caves, or deep dark biome, cornflowers have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area. When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a plains, sunflower plains, or flower forest biome, cornflowers have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 7×5×7 area. When bone meal is applied to a cornflower that has been placed on top of a grass block, more cornflowers appear on top of nearby grass blocks. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Endermen can pick up cornflowers, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it.

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell a cornflower for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, cornflowers can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Cornflowers can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Blue Dye,Cornflower,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using a cornflower to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Jump Boost effect that lasts 6 seconds in Java Edition and 4 seconds in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Cornflower,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with cornflowers, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Cornflowers can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of a cornflower have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing a cornflower into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of cornflowers yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

