Overview
    A dandelion  is a flower that can be crafted into yellow dye and used to breed rabbits.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A dandelion can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. A dandelion also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Dandelion
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Dandelions generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in multiple biomes as part of vegetation features: The following additional biomes are also technically allowed to generate dandelions, although they very rarely or never generate grass blocks on the surface in normal worlds. As a result, dandelions can generate only in edge cases or custom worlds. Natural dandelions are found in plains and savanna villages. Potted dandelions can also generate in woodland mansions.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in one of the biomes listed above (except those marked as ‌[Bedrock Edition  only]), dandelions have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area. When bone meal is applied to a grass block in any biome except swamp, dandelions have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 7×5×7 area. When bone meal is applied to a dandelion that has been placed on top of a grass block, more dandelions appear on top of nearby grass blocks. Poppies can also occasionally appear, and dandelions can occasionally appear when bone meal is applied to poppies. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Endermen can pick up dandelions, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Dandelion,Village,Plains house chest,1,"22.8% { ""item"": ""Dandelion"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.22790559614142292, ""structure"": ""Village"", ""container"": ""Plains house chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Dandelion,Village,Plains house chest,1,"22.8% { ""item"": ""Dandelion"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.22790559614142292, ""structure"": ""Village"", ""container"": ""Plains house chest"" }"

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell a dandelion for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, dandelions can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Dandelions can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Yellow Dye,Dandelion,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using a dandelion to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Saturation effect that lasts 0.35 seconds in Java Edition and 0.3 seconds in Bedrock Edition. The Saturation effect restores an additional 7 () hunger and 14 saturation in Java Edition, or 6 () hunger and 12 saturation in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Dandelion,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with dandelions, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Dandelions can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees and rabbits.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of a dandelion have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing a dandelion into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of dandelions yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

