Overview
    Diamond ore is a rare ore that generates deep underground, and is the most abundant and reliable source of diamonds. Deepslate diamond ore is a variant of diamond ore that can generate in deepslate and tuff blobs.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    The diamond ore block itself (rather than its diamond drops) can be obtained by mining it with an iron, diamond or netherite pickaxe with the Silk Touch enchantment. When mined without Silk Touch, diamond ore drops a single diamond. The maximum amount of diamonds dropped can be increased with Fortune. Fortune I gives a 1⁄3 chance for 2 diamonds, averaging 1.33 diamonds, Fortune II gives a 25% chance (each) to give 2 or 3 diamonds, averaging 1.75 diamonds, and Fortune III gives a 50% chance (each) to give 2, 3, or 4 diamonds, averaging 2.2 diamonds.

    Block,Diamond Ore,Deepslate Diamond Ore
    Hardness,3,4.5
    Tool,iron pickaxe,iron pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,15,22.5
    Wooden,7.5,11.25
    Stone,3.75,5.65
    Iron,0.75,1.15
    Diamond,0.6,0.85
    Netherite,0.5,0.75
    Golden,1.25,1.9

  Natural generation
    Diamond ore generates in the Overworld in the form of ore features, and is more common as the altitude decreases. Diamond ore blocks have a chance to not generate if they are exposed to air; however, they do not have a reduced chance to generate if exposed to water or lava, making them appear more commonly on the walls of aquifers. Diamond ore generation occurs in four batches: Diamond ore can replace stone, andesite, diorite, granite, polished andesite‌‌[BE  only], polished diorite‌‌[BE  only], polished granite‌‌[BE  only], tuff‌[JE  only], and deepslate. Diamond ore that replaces tuff or deepslate becomes deepslate diamond ore. Deepslate diamond ore also generates as part of fossils that generate below Y=0, replacing some of the bone blocks.

Usage
  Smelting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Smelting recipe
    Diamond,Diamond Ore or Deepslate Diamond Ore + Any fuel,1

  Note Blocks
    Diamond ore can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

