Overview
    The dragon egg is a decorative block or a "trophy item", and is the rarest item obtainable in the game, as it generates only once (or twice in Bedrock Edition[1]) per world.

Obtaining
    Across both Java and Bedrock editions, the dragon egg is available in the Creative inventory. It can be obtained with pick block or the /give command, or placed in the world with commands such as /setblock and /fill.

  Breaking
    The dragon egg usually cannot be mined directly, as trying to do so causes it to teleport within a 31×15×31 volume centered on the egg, with locations toward the center more likely. If all air blocks in that area are filled so there is nowhere for the egg to teleport to, or if it fails to find an air block after 1,000 attempts at teleporting, it can be mined. The dragon egg is a gravity-affected block, and drops as an item when pushed by a piston or when it falls onto a block less than a full block tall, such as a torch or a bottom slab. When destroyed by an explosion, the block always drops as an item. The dragon egg is not immune to destruction by the ender dragon, despite being produced by it.[2]

    Block,Dragon Egg
    Hardness,3
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,4.5

  Post-generation
    In Java Edition, a single dragon egg is generated on top of the exit portal when the first ender dragon is defeated. In Bedrock Edition, two dragon eggs generate on top of the exit portal; one generates when the first ender dragon is defeated, while the other generates when the second ender dragon is defeated.[1]

Usage
    The dragon egg, if there is no block below it, falls until it lands on the next available block. When it is being affected by gravity and falling, it exhibits a smooth falling animation. It does not suffocate mobs or players when it falls and covers them, nor does it crush mobs or players like anvils and stalactites do. The dragon egg can be placed on a non-solid block without falling. Like other falling blocks, when the dragon egg is floating, it has black particles falling from it.

  Light source
    The dragon egg emits a light level of 1.

  Teleporting
    To cause the egg to teleport, press attack while in Survival or Adventure mode (press use in Creative). It teleports to an air block nearby (up to seven blocks vertically and fifteen blocks horizontally), creating the same particles as an enderman. It may teleport into the air and subsequently fall to the ground since it forcefully obeys gravity. If all available air blocks are filled, it is possible to break the block. Dragon egg teleportation lacks teleportation sounds.[3]

  The Void
    In the case that egg teleportation finds an invalid location such as a negative y value, it makes an additional attempt to find a valid location, centered on the invalid location rather than the original position.

