Overview
    Dried kelp blocks are storage blocks equivalent to nine dried kelp that can also be used as fuel.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Dried kelp blocks can be mined using any tool or by hand, but a hoe is the fastest way to break it.

    Block,Dried Kelp Block
    Hardness,0.5
    Tool,Hoe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,0.75
    Wooden,0.4
    Stone,0.2
    Iron,0.15
    Diamond,0.1
    Netherite,0.1
    Golden,0.1

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Dried Kelp,"[['Dried Kelp', 'Dried Kelp', 'Dried Kelp'], ['Dried Kelp', 'Dried Kelp', 'Dried Kelp'], ['Dried Kelp', 'Dried Kelp', 'Dried Kelp']]"

Usage
    Dried kelp blocks can be used to store dried kelp in a compact fashion. Unlike hay bales, dried kelp blocks cannot be placed in every orientation, despite both being bundled dried plant matter and using the same type of model.

  Fuel
    Dried kelp blocks can be used as fuel in furnaces, blast furnaces, and smokers. Its burning time is 200 seconds (4000 ticks), and it is able to smelt 20 items. This is 2.5 times the burn duration of coal and charcoal, and 0.25 times the burn duration of a block of coal. It is the fuel with the highest number of operations per fuel below 64 items. The highest number of items that can be smelted without any refills or hoppers and without loss of fuel is 60 items (3 dried kelp blocks). Crafting a dried kelp block first requires smelting 9 pieces of kelp, so its net fuel value is only 11 items. However, using a different fuel source to smelt pieces of kelp that are then crafted into dried kelp blocks, the number of operations per fuel is effectively increased. If a lava bucket were used to smelt 100 pieces of kelp that were then crafted into 11 dried kelp blocks, which can then smelt a total of 220 items, giving the lava bucket a net increase of 20 items smelted.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Dried Kelp,Dried Kelp Block,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Composting
    Dried kelp blocks have a 50% chance of increasing the compost level in a composter by 1. Composting a dried kelp block instead of 9 dried kelps is less efficient. For example, 100 dried kelp blocks would yield 7 1⁄7 bone meal on average. Crafting them into 900 dried kelp before composting would instead yield 38 4⁄7 bone meals on average.

  Trading
    Expert-level butcher villagers buy 10 dried kelp blocks for an emerald.

