Overview
    Emerald ore is a rare mineral block that generates only in mountains and windswept hills biomes. It drops emeralds when mined, or itself if mined with a pickaxe with the Silk Touch enchantment. Deepslate emerald ore is a variant of emerald ore that can generate in deepslate and tuff blobs.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Emerald ore can be mined with a pickaxe made from iron or better, otherwise it drops nothing. If mined without Silk Touch, the block drops 1 emerald (or up to 4 with Fortune). It also drops 3–7 when broken.

    Block,Emerald Ore,Deepslate Emerald Ore
    Hardness,3,4.5
    Tool,iron pickaxe,iron pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,15,22.5
    Wooden,7.5,11.25
    Stone,3.75,5.65
    Iron,0.75,1.15
    Diamond,0.6,0.85
    Netherite,0.5,0.75
    Golden,1.25,1.9

  Natural generation
    Emerald ore generates in mountains and windswept hills biomes in the form of ore features, from levels -16 to 320, being most common at level 232, and becoming less common toward either end of the range. Emerald ore attempts to generate 100 times per chunk in blobs of 0—4 ores. Emerald ore can be exposed to the sky.[1] Emerald ore can replace stone, andesite, diorite, granite, polished andesite‌‌[BE  only], polished diorite‌‌[BE  only], polished granite‌‌[BE  only], tuff‌[JE  only], and deepslate. Emerald ore that replaces tuff or deepslate becomes deepslate emerald ore, which is the rarest ore in Minecraft, rarer than normal emerald ore and ancient debris. It generates only between the altitudes of -16 and 8 where deepslate naturally occurs, which happens to be toward the end of emerald ore distribution where it is extremely rare; its limitation to certain biomes further adds to its rarity.

Usage
  Smelting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Smelting recipe
    Emerald,Emerald Ore or Deepslate Emerald Ore + Any fuel,1

  Note blocks
    Emerald ore can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

