Overview
    An enchanting table[a] is a block used to spend experience and lapis lazuli to enchant tools, weapons, armor and books. Enchanting tables draw power from bookshelves placed around them, improving applied enchantments at the expense of level requirement.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    In Java Edition, an enchanting table requires a pickaxe to be mined, in which case it drops itself. If mined without a pickaxe, then the mining is slower and it drops nothing. In Bedrock Edition, a pickaxe is not required.

    Block,Enchanting Table
    Hardness,5
    Tool,wooden pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,25
    Wooden,3.75
    Stone,1.9
    Iron,1.25
    Diamond,0.95
    Netherite,0.85
    Golden,0.65

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Book + Diamond + Obsidian,"[[None, 'Book', None], ['Diamond', 'Obsidian', 'Diamond'], ['Obsidian', 'Obsidian', 'Obsidian']]"

Usage
    An item can be enchanted by using an enchanting table and placing the item in the input slots and 1–3 Lapis Lazuli in its dedicated Slot. Upon placing the item, three (pseudo)randomized options appear on the right of the GUI. The glyphs here do not affect the enchantment, but hovering over a presented enchantment shows one enchantment to be applied (on mobile devices, the player can tap an enchantment before putting in the Lapis Lazuli or hold the enchantment before release). The only choices available have a level requirement equal to or below the player's current level and a Lapis Lazuli requirement equal to or below the number of lapis lazuli placed in the table. Each option imbues the item with a randomized set of enchantments that are dependent on the number of experience levels required (e.g. a level 10 enchantment can give a pickaxe the "Efficiency II" enchantment); the actual level cost and the number of Lapis Lazuli required have no effect. Although the player must have at least the level requirement to get an enchantment, the number of levels that the player is charged is the same as the Lapis Lazuli requirement. For example, if the third enchantment listed is a level 30-50 enchantment, the player must have at least 30 levels, while paying only 3 levels and 3 Lapis Lazuli. The level requirement influences the quantity, type, and level of enchantments instilled in the item, with a higher experience level generally resulting in more and/or higher-level enchantments. Nevertheless, there is a significant random factor, and even a level 30 enchantment (the maximum) doesn't guarantee more than one enchantment, or even that enchantments are "maximum strength" — a level 30 enchantment can still yield Fortune II or Efficiency III alone, for example. To increase the enchantment level, bookshelves should be placed next to the enchanting table while keeping one block of air, or a replaceable block such as grass, between them. Most types of blocks being between the enchantment table and the bookshelves - even transparent blocks like torches - prevents the table from connecting with the shelves. To gain access to the previously mentioned level 30 enchantments, a total of 15 bookshelves need to be placed around the enchanting table. See the enchantment mechanics page for more detailed information on this. The enchanting table is 3⁄4 blocks high. Despite comprising largely of obsidian, they are not immune to destruction by the ender dragon.[1]

  Enchanting
    The enchanting table's main purpose is to enchant items. The table can enchant only the following items: Many other items can instead be enchanted using an anvil and an appropriate enchanted book. When a bookshelf is placed next to an enchanting table (with one block of air in between) it increases the maximum enchantment level. There must be 15 bookshelves around the enchanting table in order to obtain the maximum enchantment level of 30. See enchantment mechanics for more specific details.

  Light source
    Enchanting tables emit a light level of 7.

  Standard Galactic Alphabet
    The arcane glyphs that float from bookshelves to the enchanting table and the cryptic runes in the enchanting table's interface are written in the Standard Galactic Alphabet, which is a simple alphabet substitution cipher used in the Commander Keen series of computer games.  The arcane glyphs cannot be seen if "particles" in the video settings is set to "minimal". The cryptic runes seen in the interface are randomly constructed from the following list of words: The Java Edition additionally may use the following words:‌[JE  only] Three to five words are chosen from the list and appended to each other, then displayed in the Standard Galactic Alphabet. Although sometimes the words chosen accidentally refer to mobs like Blazes and Elder Guardians, the words chosen are random and purely cosmetic; they have no relation to the enchantments to be applied to the item and are not saved on the enchanted item (meaning they say nothing about the spell's identity), and they are displayed only in the enchanting table. Only the cost and one of the enchantments are known.

  Custom name
    By default, the GUI of an enchanting table is labeled "Enchant", but this name can be customized by naming the enchanting table in an anvil before placing it or by changing the CustomName tag using the /data command‌[Java Edition  only].

  Note Blocks
    Enchanting tables can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

  Piston interactivity
    Enchanting tables cannot be pushed by pistons. They also cannot be pushed nor pulled by sticky pistons.

