Overview
    A flowering azalea is a variant of azalea that, additionally, counts as a flower for all purposes, including pollination by bees, except crafting dyes.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Flowering azaleas can be broken instantly using any tool or by hand. Harvesting a flowering azalea with shears consumes the durability of the shears for no additional benefit. A flowering azalea also breaks if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if water flows into it.

    Block,Flowering Azalea
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Flowering Azaleas generate commonly on top of moss in lush caves.

  Post-generation
    When decayed or mined with any tool except shears and tools enchanted with Silk Touch, flowering azalea leaves have a 5% chance to drop flowering azaleas. The Fortune enchantment increases the rate to 6.25% at level I, 8.33% at level II and 10% at level III. When using bone meal on a moss block, each block in a 3×3 to 7×7 area has a 5% chance of growing a flowering azalea.

Usage
    Flowering azaleas function like any other flowers in their interaction and uses with bees. Flowering azaleas can be placed on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, podzol, moss blocks, farmland, mud, muddy mangrove roots and clay. Unlike most transparent blocks, mobs can spawn on top of flowering azaleas in Java Edition[1].

  Composting
    Putting a flowering azalea in a composter has a 85% chance of increasing the composting level.

  Fuel
    Flowering azaleas can be used as a fuel source in furnaces, smelting 0.5 items per azalea.

  Growing trees
    Unlike saplings, a flowering azalea does not automatically grow into an azalea tree. Therefore, using bone meal on it is the only way to grow an azalea tree. Application of bone meal gives a flowering azalea a 45% chance to grow into an azalea tree, provided there is a 3×5×3 area above it that is clear of all blocks that are not leaves or logs.

  Bee nests
    Oak and birch trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of any flowering azalea have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest containing 1 to 3 bees.

