Overview
    Glazed terracotta is a vibrant solid block that comes in the sixteen regular dye colors, obtained by smelting colored terracotta. Glazed terracotta does not stick to slime blocks or honey blocks, and it cannot be pulled by sticky pistons, but it can be pushed by pistons.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Glazed terracotta requires a pickaxe to be mined. When mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.

    Block,Glazed Terracotta
    Hardness,1.4
    Tool,wooden pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,7
    Wooden,1.05
    Stone,0.55
    Iron,0.35
    Diamond,0.3
    Netherite,0.25
    Golden,0.2

  Natural generation
    Purple glazed terracotta generates in some cold underwater ruins. Yellow glazed terracotta generates in mason houses in savanna villages. Orange glazed terracotta generates in savanna village armorer houses. White glazed terracotta generates in some desert village buildings. Lime glazed terracotta generates in one of the desert village temples. Light blue glazed terracotta generates in toolsmith houses in desert villages. All types of glazed terracotta except green, magenta, and pink generate in trail ruins.

  Smelting
    Glazed Terracotta can be obtained by smelting any stained terracotta. Unstained terracotta cannot be smelted.

    Ingredients,Smelting recipe
    Matching Dyed Terracotta + Any fuel,0.1

  Trading
    Expert-level stone mason villagers sell 1 glazed terracotta for an emerald as part of their trades.

Usage
    Glazed terracotta does not stick to slime blocks, and honey blocks, but unlike immovable blocks, it can be pushed by pistons and sticky pistons. It cannot be pulled by sticky pistons.

  Placement
    When placed, glazed terracotta's texture rotates relative to the direction the player is facing while placing the block. If several glazed terracotta blocks of the same color are placed in the "correct" orientation in a 2×2 or greater area, the textures align to create a singular image, as demonstrated in the image to the right. The magenta glazed terracotta pattern includes an arrow (⬆) design that can be used to point to things or direct players. A guide is shown below, in order to correctly place the arrow direction (based on testing).

    Facing,Arrow direction
    Front,Pointing right ►
    Left,Pointing down ▼
    Right,Pointing up ▲
    Above,Pointing down ▼

  Texture
    Glazed Terracotta blocks are designed to form a larger, cohesive pattern when placed in the correct 2×2 configuration. Most textures have reflection symmetry along a diagonal line that goes from corner to corner, though the colors of individual pixels can differ slightly. Although the design of each individual glazed terracotta block is up for interpretation, there are some intentional details in certain blocks:

  Note Blocks
    All types of glazed terracotta can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sound.

