Overview
    Glowstone is a light-emitting block that occurs in branching structures, found hanging from ceilings and overhangs in the Nether.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    If glowstone is broken using a tool with Silk Touch, the block drops itself. If a tool with Fortune is used, it has a higher chance of dropping a large amount of glowstone dust—but never more than 4. When a glowstone block is broken using any other tool, it drops 2–4 glowstone dust.

    Block,Glowstone
    Hardness,0.3
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.45

  Natural generation
    Glowstone occurs naturally only in the Nether, where it generates in crystalline blobs on the underside of ceilings or overhangs. They can be found in every Nether biome, although they are significantly rarer in soul sand valleys,[1] because the ceiling of this biome is made of soul sand or soul soil below which glowstone blobs cannot generate; they can still occasionally generate in caves and canyons in this biome,[2] because the ceiling is made of netherrack. Glowstone can also generate as a part of hoglin stable bastion remnants.

  Mob loot
    Witches may drop glowstone dust, which can be crafted into glowstone.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Glowstone,Bastion remnant,Hoglin stable chest,3–6,"22.8% { ""item"": ""Glowstone"", ""stacksize"": ""3–6"", ""chance"": 0.22793887963348602, ""structure"": ""Bastion remnant"", ""container"": ""Hoglin stable chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Glowstone,Bastion remnant,Hoglin stable chest,3–6,"22.8% { ""item"": ""Glowstone"", ""stacksize"": ""3–6"", ""chance"": 0.22793887963348602, ""structure"": ""Bastion remnant"", ""container"": ""Hoglin stable chest"" }"

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Glowstone Dust,"[[None, None, None], ['Glowstone Dust', 'Glowstone Dust', None], ['Glowstone Dust', 'Glowstone Dust', None]]"

  Trading
    Although glowstone can only be found in block form in the Nether, all renewable ways of obtaining glowstone are accessed through the Overworld. Journeyman-level cleric villagers sell glowstone for four emeralds. Wandering traders sell glowstone for two emeralds.

Usage
    Analyzing glowstone in a material reducer, it turns out to be a 1:1:1:1:1 mixture of Argon, Neon and Krypton noble gases, Boron and an unknown element.‌[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only]

  Light source
    Glowstone blocks emit a light level of 15, the brightest possible light level in the game. They emit the same amount of light as lanterns, sea lanterns, jack o'lanterns, redstone lamps, conduits, beacons, shroomlights, and froglights.

  Redstone circuits
    When placing redstone dust on a glowstone block, being a transparent block, signals can pass from one block to another diagonally. Redstone wire, even though it may appear to connect up the side of a glowstone block and to the wire portion on top, does not send a redstone signal down the glowstone block. This makes glowstone effective for vertical diodes, logic gate designs, and space-efficient instant vertical redstone. Note that upside-down slabs can be used for the same purpose, and are easier to obtain.

  Piston interactivity
    Glowstone, like other pushable blocks, becomes a block of moving piston when moved by a piston; this momentarily stops it from giving off light.[3]

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Redstone Lamp,Redstone Dust + Glowstone,"[[None, 'Redstone Dust', None], ['Redstone Dust', '', 'Redstone Dust'], [None, 'Redstone Dust', None]]"
    Respawn Anchor,Crying Obsidian + Glowstone,"[['Crying Obsidian', 'Crying Obsidian', 'Crying Obsidian'], ['', '', ''], ['Crying Obsidian', 'Crying Obsidian', 'Crying Obsidian']]"

  Note blocks
    Glowstone can be placed under note blocks to produce pling sounds.

  Respawn anchors
    Glowstone is used to charge respawn anchors. If a dispenser containing glowstone is facing a respawn anchor, it can automatically charge the respawn anchor when powered.

  Transparent block
    Glowstone blocks all sunlight, players and mobs suffocate inside it, mobs are able to pathfind to it, and it blocks a beacon beam, preventing the beacon's activation. However, like transparent blocks, it does not prevent the opening of chests, monsters (including slimes) cannot spawn on it, and it does not transfer a redstone signal. This behavior also occurs in sea lanterns.

