Overview
    A grindstone is a block that repairs items and tools as well as removing enchantments from them, except for curses. It also serves as a weaponsmith's job site block.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Grindstones can be obtained using any pickaxe. If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.

    Block,Grindstone
    Hardness,2
    Tool,wooden pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,10
    Wooden,1.5
    Stone,0.75
    Iron,0.5
    Diamond,0.4
    Netherite,0.35
    Golden,0.25

  Natural generation
    Grindstones naturally generate at village weaponsmiths.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe,Description
    Stick + Stone Slab + Any Planks,"[['Stick', 'Stone Slab', 'Stick'], ['Oak Planks', None, 'Oak Planks'], [None, None, None]]","In Bedrock Edition, grindstone recipes built with crimson, warped, or mangrove planks can use a slab of almost any of the stone types including sandstone, quartz, and bricks."

Usage
    A grindstone can be oriented in different directions. In Java Edition it doesn't need a supporting block. In Bedrock Edition it breaks if unsupported.

  Repairing and disenchanting
    When used, an interface is displayed with two input slots and one output slot. Placing one enchanted item in an input slot forms a new non-enchanted item of the same type and durability in the output slot. Removing the item from the output slot consumes the input item and drops some experience. Placing two items (enchanted or not) of the same type in the input slots forms a new non-enchanted item of that type and with a durability equal to the sum of the durabilities of the two input items, plus 5% of the maximum durability of that item (rounded down), up to its maximum durability. Both input items are consumed in the process. If either input item was enchanted, then removing the output item drops some experience. The amount of experience dropped depends on the number of enchantments and levels of each, but it is partially random. For example, Fire Protection I gives 5-9 experience.[more information needed] As with all non-enchanted items, the new item has no prior work penalty. A grindstone cannot remove a curse. Grindstones also do not remove an item's custom name. If the action is not applicable (e.g. only one non-enchanted item, or the two inputs are different items), the arrow displays a red cross like that of an anvil and no item appears in the output slot. The following tables show the durability bonuses of various items:

    Armor,Leather,Gold,Chainmail,Iron,Diamond,Netherite
    Helmet,2,3,8,8,18,20
    Chestplate,4,5,12,12,26,29
    Leggings,3,5,11,11,24,27
    Boots,3,4,9,9,21,24

    Tools
    Wood,Gold,Stone,Iron,Diamond,Netherite
    3,1,6,12,78,101

    Miscellaneous Tools
    Bow,Crossbow,Trident,Shield,Turtle Shell,Elytra,Carrot on a Stick,Warped Fungus on a Stick,Fishing Rod,Shears,Flint and Steel
    19,23,12,16,13,21,1,5,3‌ [ JE only ] 19‌ [ BE only ],11,3

  Changing profession
    If a village has a grindstone that has not been claimed by a villager, any villager who did not already pick a job site block has a chance to change their profession into weaponsmith.

  Experience
    When removing enchantments from items, the player gains experience equal to the minimum modified enchantment level of that enchantment. The final amount is a uniformly-distributed random amount between half the resulting sum (rounded up) and the sum itself.

  Piston interactivity
    Grindstones cannot be pushed by pistons or pulled by sticky pistons.

