Overview
    An item frame is an entity‌[JE  only] or block entity‌[BE  only] that displays the item or block that is inside it. A glow item frame keeps itself and the item inside it illuminated, even in the dark.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    In Java Edition, an empty item frame can be broken simply by punching it. If the item frame contains an item, punching it drops the item, leaving the frame on the wall. Because item frames are entities in Java Edition, they can be broken in Adventure mode. They will also be targeted by commands using the @e selector.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Natural generation
    An item frame containing a pair of elytra generates in each end ship.

  Crafting
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Item Frame,Stick + Leather,"[['Stick', 'Stick', 'Stick'], ['Stick', 'Leather', 'Stick'], ['Stick', 'Stick', 'Stick']]"
    Glow Item Frame,Glow Ink Sac + Item Frame,"[[None, None, None], ['Glow Ink Sac', '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Trading
    Expert-level cartographer villagers have a chance to sell an item frame for 7 emeralds.

Usage
  Item display
    Item frames can be placed on the sides of cactus blocks, pressure plates, fences, trees, slabs, cobblestone walls, chests, doors, and all solid blocks. They can also be placed on the top and bottom of these blocks. To place on chests and doors, the player needs to be sneaking. As item frames are an entity, multiple item frames can occupy the same block, although on different faces. It also allows non-solid blocks to occupy the same space.‌[Java Edition  only] Players can place items in the frame by using the item. If a map is placed in an item frame, it enlarges to show the map in the size of a full block, with the item frame's location displayed as a green pointer on the map, pointing in the direction the item frame is facing. If this is done in the Nether, the green cursor spins around similar to the white cursor (players). If an item in an item frame has been renamed using an anvil, it displays its custom name when the cursor is over the item frame. If the player places a block inside the frame, it is displayed in miniature half in, half out of the block. This can be most notably seen on stairs or slabs. Pick block may be used on item frames by players in creative mode only, the control has no effect for players in Survival or Adventure mode. When the item frame is displaying an item, pick block picks the displayed item instead of the item frame. Item frames can be placed on the lid of a shulker box that is positioned horizontally, but pop off when the lid is opened.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Rotation
    The displayed item can then be rotated by right-clicking the frame. Items displayed in the item frame can turn 45° diagonally, with a total of 8 possibilities (90° and 4 possibilities if it is a map), and the frame outputs a redstone signal depending on the rotation phase that can be interpreted by a redstone comparator (note that this rotation value is separate from the clock or compass rotation). As long as the frame remains placed, it remembers the orientation of the last item it held, and uses it for the next item it holds.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Glow item frames
    When an item is placed inside a glow item frame, it appears to glow, even though it does not emit any light level.

