Overview
    Jigsaw blocks are technical blocks commonly used as a way to construct large structures from smaller sections.

Obtaining
    In Java Edition, jigsaw blocks are available in the creative inventory. Across both Java and Bedrock editions, they can also be obtained by using the pick block control, or by using various commands such as /give @s jigsaw. Jigsaw blocks are included when a player uses a structure block to spawn certain structures that use jigsaw blocks for generation.

  Natural generation
    Jigsaw blocks do not naturally generate. Some structures rely on jigsaw blocks for generation (pillager outposts, villages and ancient cities), but these jigsaw blocks are replaced by other blocks during generation.

Usage
  Jigsaw connections
    Jigsaw blocks are function blocks used for the generation of jigsaw structures out of smaller templates.[1] Jigsaw structures are used for the generation of pillager outposts, villages, bastion remnants, ancient cities, trail_ruins, and trial chambers‌[upcoming: JE 1.21 & BE 1.21]; other structures use hardcoded generation. The GUI of a jigsaw block can be used to configure its generation settings. Those are: Target Pool
Refers to a template pool; or an alias of a template pool‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.3]. The template pool is used to select the connecting structure piece. Name
Name of the jigsaw block.
Defaults to minecraft:empty. Target name
The desired name of the jigsaw block in the connecting piece to connect to this jigsaw block.
Defaults to minecraft:empty. Turns into
What the jigsaw block turns into once the whole feature is generated.
Defaults to minecraft:air. Selection Priority ‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.3]
Defines the order of jigsaw blocks in a template to generate the connecting piece. Placement Priority ‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.3]
Defines the order of in which the connecting piece is processed to handle its jigsaw blocks during the wider structure generation. Joint type
Appears only when jigsaw block is placed facing up or down.
Contains two types of joints: Rollable and Aligned
Rollable: The connecting piece is placed with a random rotation. Defaults to this.
Aligned: The connecting piece is rotates such that the rotations of the jigsaw blocks match (marked by the white bar on the jigsaw block)

  Debug generation
    Jigsaw blocks can also be used to generate multiple levels of jigsaw blocks in the world. The settings in the 2nd to last row are only used for this purpose and are not saved when leaving the UI. Levels
Determines how many jigsaw block "levels" it goes through. (ex. Piece>[Layer 1]>[Layer 2]).
Can be set to an integer from 0 to 7‌[until JE 1.20.2]/from 0 to 20‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.3]. Defaults to 0. Keep Jigsaw
Determines if the placed pieces includes the jigsaw blocks it contains or become what its "Turns into" field is set to.
Defaults to ON Generate
The button to start the generation.

  Piston interactivity
    Jigsaw blocks cannot be pushed by pistons. They also cannot be pushed nor pulled by sticky pistons.

