Overview
    Lanterns are blocks that emit light. There is a green variant of the lantern that appeared in Minecraft Live 2023. Its function is unknown.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    When broken with a pickaxe, a lantern drops itself. When broken without a pickaxe, it drops nothing. A lantern always drops if its supporting block is removed.

    Block,Lantern
    Hardness,3.5
    Tool,wooden pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,17.5
    Wooden,2.65
    Stone,1.35
    Iron,0.9
    Diamond,0.7
    Netherite,0.6
    Golden,0.45

  Natural generation
    Lanterns can generate as lamps or lamp posts above farms and on some buildings in snowy tundra villages and in bastion remnants.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Iron Nugget + Torch,"[['Iron Nugget', 'Iron Nugget', 'Iron Nugget'], ['Iron Nugget', 'Torch', 'Iron Nugget'], ['Iron Nugget', 'Iron Nugget', 'Iron Nugget']]"

  Trading
    Apprentice-level librarian villagers have a 50%‌[Bedrock Edition  only] or 66.7%‌[Java Edition  only] chance of selling a lantern for an emerald as part of their trades.

Usage
    Lanterns can be placed on the top or bottom surfaces of most solid blocks, although some require sneaking. More information can be found at Opacity/Placement. When placed below a block the lantern appears to hang. They connect to chains seamlessly. Lanterns can be placed (if a support platform is presented) or hanging (if a ceiling block is presented). The type of the block (solid, opaque, transparent, etc... given the block has top/bottom solid surface) does not affect the ability to hang of a lantern, similar to torches. Press use on the targeted block or a block adjacent to the air block the lantern is going to occupy to place it. If the latter is used and both the support/ceiling block is presented: If the object the lantern is placed on receive a block update that does not support the placement of the lantern, it is removed and drop as an item (e.g: lantern on a trapdoor and the trapdoor is flipped).

  Light
    The lantern is among the most luminous of light sources, emitting a light level of 15. Lanterns also melt snow layers within 2 blocks and ice within 3 blocks (taxicab distance).

