Overview
    A lily of the valley is a flower that can be crafted into white dye.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A lily of the valley can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. A lily of the valley also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Lily of the Valley
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Lilies of the valley generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in  forest,  flower forest,  birch forest,  old growth birch forest, and  dark forest biomes as part of vegetation features.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a flower forest biome, lilies of the valley have a rare chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area.[1] When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a forest, flower forest, birch forest, old growth birch forest, or dark forest biome, lilies of the valley have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 7×5×7 area. When bone meal is applied to a lily of the valley that has been placed on top of a grass block, more lilies of the valley appear on top of nearby grass blocks. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Endermen can pick up lilies of the valley, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it.

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell a lily of the valley for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, lilies of the valley can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Lilies of the valley can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    White Dye,Lily of the Valley,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using a lily of the valley to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Poison effect that lasts 12 seconds in Java Edition and 10 seconds in Bedrock Edition. The Poison effect deals 9 in Java Edition or 8 in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Lily of the Valley,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with lilies of the valley, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Lilies of the valley can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of a lily of the valley have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing a lily of the valley into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of lilies of the valley yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

