Overview
    A melon is a fruit block that grows from a fully-grown melon stem, which in turn is grown from melon seeds.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A melon drops 3–7 melon slices when broken by hand, using tools, or pushing with a piston. Silk Touch causes the block itself to drop. Fortune increases the maximum number of melon slices dropped, increasing the average yield to 6.4314 with Fortune III. The actual amount is capped at 9, so Fortune III simply increases the chance of getting 9 slices, which is sufficient to craft the melon again from the slices.

    Block,Melon
    Hardness,1
    Tool,Axe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,1.5
    Wooden,0.75
    Stone,0.4
    Iron,0.25
    Diamond,0.2
    Netherite,0.2
    Golden,0.15
    Sword,1

  Natural generation
    Melons are naturally generated in jungle biomes, as pile (and in some farms) in savanna villages and inside tillage rooms of woodland mansions.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Melon Slice,"[['Melon Slice', 'Melon Slice', 'Melon Slice'], ['Melon Slice', 'Melon Slice', 'Melon Slice'], ['Melon Slice', 'Melon Slice', 'Melon Slice']]"

Usage
  Farming
    Melon seeds can be planted, placing a small stem that grows over time. Once the stem reaches maturity, it attempts to generate a melon block in one of the four immediately adjacent blocks; however, this attempt may fail if the chosen adjacent block is not empty or the block beneath is not an appropriate block (dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, grass block, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss block, mud or muddy mangrove roots). Melons take 10 to 30 minutes to grow, which is equal to 0.5 to 1.5 times the length of a daylight cycle. Once a stem has produced a melon, that stem does not produce any further melons until the existing melon is harvested. Melon stems connect only to the melons they produce. For example, if stem A generates a melon adjacent to stem B, stem B does not connect and can still produce another melon. Similarly, if a melon is placed adjacent to stem B, stem B would still be able to produce another melon. The same principle applies for pumpkins. Melons require a light level of 9 or higher to grow.

  Trades
    Villagers who are journeymen (level 3) farmers buy 4 melons for an emerald.

  Composting
    Placing a melon into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. Composting a crafted melon block instead of 9 melon slices is very inefficient. For example, 100 melons could yield 9.29 bone meals on average. Meanwhile, if not crafted, 900 melon slices could yield 64.29 bone meals on average.

