Overview
    A mushroom block is a solid block that makes up a huge mushroom, which consists of a mushroom stem and brown mushroom blocks or red mushroom blocks, depending on the color of the huge mushroom.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Mushroom blocks are most quickly broken with an axe, with a chance of 77.77% of dropping 0 and respectively a chance of 11.11% to drop 1 or 2 mushroom items of the respective type. In Java Edition, only cap blocks drop mushroom items, while in Bedrock Edition stem blocks drop mushrooms as well. Fortune does not affect the drop rate of mushrooms in any form.[1] The blocks themselves can be retrieved only by using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch. Mining the mushroom cap or stem yields a block with the cap or stem texture, respectively, on all faces. Additionally, in Java Edition, if two similar mushroom blocks are placed next to each other and one of them is broken, the side of the other block that it was facing reveals the pore texture. This is because the side of these blocks change texture if they touch another block of the same type. Mushroom blocks can be moved and are not broken by pistons.

    Block,Mushroom Block
    Hardness,0.2
    Tool,Axe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,0.3
    Wooden,0.15
    Stone,0.1
    Iron,0.05
    Diamond,0.05
    Netherite,0.05
    Golden,0.05

  Natural generation
    Mushroom blocks generate as part of huge mushroom structures.

  Creative inventory
    In Java Edition, the brown and red mushroom blocks as well as the mushroom stem are available in the Creative inventory. In Bedrock Edition, all-sided cap blocks, all-sided stem block (with id of "brown_mushroom_block"), and all-sided pore block (with id of "brown_mushroom_block") are available in the Creative inventory.

Usage
  Composting
    Mushroom blocks can be used in the composter with an 85% chance to make a new layer. Mushroom stems can be used in the composter with a 65%‌[JE  only] / 85%‌[BE  only] chance to make a new layer.

  Note Blocks
    Mushroom blocks can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass" sound.

