Overview
    Nylium is a variant of netherrack that generates in the Nether. It has two variants: warped nylium and crimson nylium which both spawn in different biomes.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Nylium only drops itself when mined with a pickaxe enchanted with Silk Touch; if mined with a normal pickaxe, it drops netherrack. If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.

    Block,Nylium
    Hardness,0.4
    Tool,wooden pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,2
    Wooden,0.3
    Stone,0.15
    Iron,0.1
    Diamond,0.1
    Netherite,0.1
    Golden,0.05

  Natural generation
    Warped nylium generates in the warped forest biome, and crimson nylium generates in the crimson forest biome.

  Mob loot
    Nylium is dropped when an enderman dies while holding it.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Crimson Nylium,Bastion remnant,Hoglin stable chest,2–7,"22.8% { ""item"": ""Crimson Nylium"", ""stacksize"": ""2–7"", ""chance"": 0.22793887963348602, ""structure"": ""Bastion remnant"", ""container"": ""Hoglin stable chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Crimson Nylium,Bastion remnant,Hoglin stable chest,2–7,"22.8% { ""item"": ""Crimson Nylium"", ""stacksize"": ""2–7"", ""chance"": 0.22793887963348602, ""structure"": ""Bastion remnant"", ""container"": ""Hoglin stable chest"" }"

  Post-generation
    Using bone meal on netherrack that is placed next to or adjacent to warped or crimson nylium transforms the netherrack into nylium of that type. Air must be above the netherrack during this process. This transformation can also be done by activating a dispenser with bone meal directly into that netherrack block.  If both types of nylium are present, there is an equal chance of either being spread.

Usage
    Similar to grass blocks and mycelium, nylium decays (based on random ticks) into netherrack when an opaque block is placed above it. However, unlike grass blocks and mycelium, it does not decay underneath water or lava.[1] It decays when covered with snow.[2] Like mycelium and podzol, mushrooms can remain on nylium blocks in any light level. Huge mushrooms can be grown by using bone meal on mushrooms planted on nylium. Fungi can likewise be grown into huge fungi using bone meal, though the fungus must be placed on the same type of nylium, or the bone meal will not even be consumed. Similar to grass blocks, the player can apply bone meal to nylium. This nylium, along with nearby nylium, generate vegetation that occurs in their native biome (crimson nylium generates mostly crimson forest vegetation and warped nylium generates mostly warped forest vegetation), and just like in the native biomes, the opposite type of fungi occassionally generates. The vegetation is generated in a 5×5 area, centered on the nylium block on which bone meal is used.

  Note Blocks
    Nylium can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

