Overview
    An oxeye daisy is a flower that can be crafted into light gray dye and flower charge banner patterns.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    An oxeye daisy can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. An oxeye daisy also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Oxeye Daisy
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Oxeye daisies generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in  plains,  sunflower plains,  flower forest, and  meadow biomes as part of vegetation features. In Java Edition, they are also technically capable of growing in dripstone caves and deep dark biomes, though it is very unlikely due to lack of grass blocks in these biomes. Natural oxeye daisies are found in plains villages. Potted oxeye daisies can also be generated in woodland mansions.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a plains, sunflower plains, flower forest, meadow, dripstone caves, or deep dark biome, oxeye daisies have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area. When bone meal is applied to a grass block in a plains, sunflower plains, or flower forest biome, oxeye daisies have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 7×5×7 area. When bone meal is applied to an oxeye daisy that has been placed on top of a grass block, more oxeye daisies appear on top of nearby grass blocks. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Endermen can pick up oxeye daisies, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it.

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell an oxeye daisy for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, oxeye daisies can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Oxeye daisies can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Banner Pattern Flower,Paper + Oxeye Daisy,"[[None, None, None], ['Paper', '', None], [None, None, None]]"
    Light Gray Dye,Oxeye Daisy,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using an oxeye daisy to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Regeneration effect that lasts 8 seconds in Java Edition and 6 seconds in Bedrock Edition. The Regeneration effect restores 3.2 × 1.6 in Java Edition or 2.4 × 1.2 in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Oxeye Daisy,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with oxeye daisies, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Oxeye daisies can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of an oxeye daisy have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing an oxeye daisy into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of oxeye daisies yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

