Overview
    A piston is a block capable of pushing most entities and blocks when given a redstone signal. A sticky piston is a variant of the piston that can additonally pull most blocks when it retracts. Some blocks cannot be moved, break when pushed or have other interactions with pistons. A piston can move up to twelve blocks at once.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A piston can be broken using any tool with equal efficiency, and always drops itself.
In Java Edition, it is faster to break them with a pickaxe. The pickaxe is also the preferred tool for breaking the head when extended.[1]

    Block,Piston
    Hardness,1.5
    Tool,Pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,2.25
    Wooden,1.15
    Stone,0.6
    Iron,0.4
    Diamond,0.3
    Netherite,0.25
    Golden,0.2

  Natural generation
    Three sticky pistons generate as part of each jungle temple. Five sticky pistons also generate in each ancient city.

  Crafting
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Piston,Any Planks + Cobblestone + Iron Ingot + Redstone Dust,"[['Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks'], ['Cobblestone', 'Iron Ingot', 'Cobblestone'], ['Cobblestone', 'Redstone Dust', 'Cobblestone']]"
    Sticky Piston,Slimeball + Piston,"[[None, None, None], [None, 'Slimeball', None], [None, '', None]]"

Usage
    Pistons are always placed facing toward the player. When powered, the piston's wooden surface (the "head") starts extending immediately in Java Edition; or either 2 game ticks (1 redstone tick; 0.1 seconds) later or immediately, depending on how it was powered, in Bedrock Edition. When it extends, it pushes at most 12 blocks. The piston makes a sound that can be heard within a 31×31×31 cube centered on the activating piston. Any entities in the path of the extending head are pushed with the blocks. If there is no place for the entities to go, the block pushes inside them, suffocating mobs if the block is not transparent when pushed into the eye height of the mob. When a piston loses power, its head retracts. Like extending, this retraction starts immediately in Java Edition; or, depending on how it was powered, after 1 tick in Bedrock Edition. It finishes retracting 2 game ticks (1 redstone tick; 0.1 seconds) after it starts. A sticky piston also pulls the block attached to its head, but not any of the other blocks it may have pushed. Sticky pistons stick to a block only when retracting, so a block next to the piston head can be pushed aside by another piston and sticky pistons cannot hold falling blocks horizontally against gravity. In Java Edition, pistons finish extending early and start retracting if given a pulse shorter than 3 game ticks (1.5 redstone ticks; 0.15 seconds). These shorter pulses cause sticky pistons to "drop" their block, leaving it behind when trying to push it with a short pulse. Also, this causes the block to end up in its final position earlier. However, if they receive a short pulse and don't have a block to be pushed, they pull the block which is 1 block away. A piston that pushes a slime block bounces any entity that it displaces in the direction the piston is facing. In addition, when a slime block is moved by a piston, any movable blocks adjacent (not diagonally) to the slime block also moves. See the "Slime blocks" section below for more details. In Bedrock Edition, blocks that stick to walls (such as levers) can be placed on pistons or sticky pistons without being destroyed when activated.

  Limitations
    Pistons can push most blocks, and sticky pistons can pull most blocks, except those listed in the table below. A sticky piston simply leaves a block behind if it cannot pull it. Pistons cannot push blocks into the void or beyond the top of the map. They also cannot push more than 12 blocks. If the requirements for a block to be pushed are not met, the piston simply does not extend.

    Block,Effect ( Java Edition ),Effect ( Bedrock Edition )
    Barrier Beacon Bedrock Command Block Crying Obsidian Enchanting Table End Gateway End Portal End Portal Frame Ender Chest Grindstone Jigsaw Block Jukebox Light Lodestone Monster Spawner Moving Piston Nether Portal Obsidian Piston (extended) Piston Head Reinforced Deepslate Respawn Anchor Sculk Catalyst Sculk Sensor Sculk Shrieker Structure Block Structure Void ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ],Cannot be pushed or pulled.
    Allow Deny Border,N/A,Cannot be pushed or pulled.
    Compound Creator Element Element Constructor Hardened Glass Hardened Glass Pane Heat Block Lab Table Material Reducer Underwater TNT,Can be pushed or pulled.
    Underwater Torch Colored Torches,"Breaks when pushed, turning to drops when applicable. Cannot be pulled."
    Barrel Beehive Bee Nest Blast Furnace Brewing Stand Chest Chiseled Bookshelf Conduit Daylight Detector Dispenser Dropper Furnace Hopper Lectern Smoker Trapped Chest,"Cannot be pushed or pulled, because these blocks hold block entities .",Can be pushed or pulled.
    Large Chest,"Can be pushed or pulled, but separates into two chests."
    Banner Hanging Sign Sign,"Breaks when pushed or unsupported, turning into drops."
    Campfire Soul Campfire,"Breaks when pushed, turning to drops when applicable. Cannot be pulled."
    Glazed Terracotta,"Can be pushed, but not pulled."
    Carpets (not moss),"Can be pushed and pulled. Breaks when pulled downward, turning into drops."
    Bell Candle Lantern Soul Lantern,"Breaks when pushed, turning to drops when applicable. Cannot be pulled.",Can be pushed or pulled.
    Amethyst Cluster Bamboo Bed Budding Amethyst Button Cactus Cake Carved Pumpkin Cave Vines Chorus Flower Chorus Plant Cobweb Cocoa Dead Bush Decorated Pot Door Dragon Egg Fire Flower Pot Flower Frogspawn Grass Head Item Frame [note 1] Jack o'Lantern Ladder Lava Leaves Lever Lily Pad Melon Melon Stem Moss Block Moss Carpet Mushroom Nether Wart Painting [note 2] Pink Petals Pointed Dripstone Pressure Plate Pumpkin Pumpkin Stem Redstone Comparator Redstone Dust Redstone Repeater Redstone Torch Saplings Scaffolding Sculk Vein Sea Pickle Shulker Box Snow Soul Fire Structure Void ‌ [ Java Edition only ] Sugar Cane Suspicious Sand Torch Torchflower Torchflower Crop Tripwire Tripwire Hook Turtle Egg Twisting Vines Vines Water Weeping Vines Weighted Pressure Plate Wheat,"Breaks when pushed, turning to drops when applicable. Cannot be pulled."
    Anvil,Cannot be pulled. Pushable only when in a falling state .,"Can be pushed or pulled, but falls if unsupported."
    Concrete Powder Gravel Red Sand Sand,"Can be pushed or pulled, but falls if unsupported."

    Pistons do not move blocks that are "attached to a block", as they detach and drop as an item.

  Powering pistons
    Pistons can be powered in various ways:

  Slime blocks and honey blocks
    When a slime block is pushed or pulled by a piston, while moving, adjacent blocks also move with the slime block, unless a non-piston movable block stops the blocks that are "grabbed" by the slime blocks. These blocks may in turn push other blocks, not just the blocks in the line in front of the piston. For example, a slime block sitting on the ground attempts to move the ground block underneath itself, which in turn has to push additional ground blocks in the direction of motion just as if it were being pushed directly by a piston. Glazed terracotta is an exception; it does not move when adjacent slime blocks are moved. The same occurs when a slime block is moved by an adjacent Slime Block. For example, a 2×2×2 cube of Slime Blocks may be pushed or pulled as a unit by a single piston acting on any of the blocks in the cube. A slime block adjacent to a block that cannot be moved by pistons ignores the immobile block. But if an adjacent block could be moved but is prevented by the presence of an immobile block, the slime block is prevented from moving. Slime blocks are not pulled by a non-sticky piston, nor are they moved if an adjacent (non-Slime) block is moved by a piston. The maximum of 12 blocks moved by a piston still applies. For example, a 2×2×3 collection of Slime Blocks may be pushed or pulled by a sticky piston as long as no other movable blocks are adjacent to it. A piston cannot move itself via a "hook" constructed of slime blocks, but self-propelled contraptions can be created with multiple pistons. For that, see the article Tutorials/Flying machines. The same happens for the honey block, but it does not stick to slime blocks.

Technical components
  Piston head
    The piston head is a technical block used as the second block of an extended piston. A block state defines whether it is a normal or a sticky piston head. It can be placed using the /setblock command or with the debug stick, though if not part of a proper piston, it disappears after receiving any block tick, such as when a block is placed next to it unless the player uses the debug stick. It drops nothing. In Java Edition, the normal and sticky piston heads are distinguished by a block state. In Bedrock Edition, they use separate block IDs, and it can be obtained as an item via inventory editors. Java Edition:

    Name,Default value,Allowed values,Description
    facing,north,down east north south up west,The direction the piston head is pointing.
    short,false,false true,"If true, the piston arm is shorter than usual, by 4 pixels."
    type,normal,normal sticky,The type of piston head.

    Bedrock Edition:
Piston Head:

    Name,Metadata Bits,Default value,Allowed values,Values for Metadata Bits,Description
    facing_direction,0x1 0x2 0x4,0,0 1 2 3 4 5,0 1 2 3 4 5,The direction the piston head is pointing. 0: facing up 1: facing down 2: facing south 3: facing north 4: facing east 5: facing west

    Sticky Piston Head:

    Name,Metadata Bits,Default value,Allowed values,Values for Metadata Bits,Description
    facing_direction,Not Supported,0,0 1 2 3 4 5,Unsupported,The direction the piston head is pointing. 0: facing up 1: facing down 2: facing south 3: facing north 4: facing east 5: facing west

  Moving piston
    The moving piston, also known as block 36 due to its pre-flattening block ID, is an unobtainable technical block that contains part of a piston head, and/or part of one or two blocks that the piston is carrying into or out of the grid cell (including blocks carried indirectly via slime blocks). Since moving blocks vary in how much of each grid cell they occupy, they can't be stored as normal blocks and are instead stored as block entities. It is overwritten with air, the piston head or the carried block at the end of the piston stroke; but if it is placed through editing and no piston is connected, it remains indefinitely. It is invisible and non-solid in Java Edition, and cannot be broken without the use of commands or TNT. Although it is non-solid, fluids cannot pass through it. It also prevents players from building at its location. Mobs can see through it, but cannot walk through it.
The game treats the block as a stone block when it comes to the player's footstep sounds. It is similar to Invisible Bedrock in properties with the exception that the player can walk through the moving piston but not invisible bedrock. Java Edition:

    Name,Default value,Allowed values,Description
    facing,north,down east north south up west,The direction the block is being pushed by the piston.
    type,normal,normal sticky,What piston base this has.

    The moving piston has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block. Java Edition: Bedrock Edition: See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.

