Overview
    A poppy is a flower that can be crafted into red dye.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A poppy can be broken instantly with any item or by hand, dropping itself. A poppy also breaks if water or lava runs over its location, if a piston extends or pushes a block into its location, or if a block under the plant is moved or destroyed.

    Block,Poppy
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05

  Natural generation
    Poppies generate naturally on dirt and grass blocks in multiple biomes as part of vegetation features. In both Java Edition and Bedrock Edition, poppies can be found in the following biomes: In Java Edition, poppies can also generate in many additional biomes: In Java Edition, the following additional biomes are also technically allowed to generate poppies, although they very rarely or never generate grass blocks on the surface in normal worlds. As a result, poppies can generate only in edge cases or custom worlds. Natural poppies are found in plains, savanna, and taiga villages, as well as snowy villages in Bedrock Edition. Potted poppies can also generate in woodland mansions.

  Post-generation
    When bone meal is applied to a grass block in one of the biomes listed above, poppies have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area. When bone meal is applied to a grass block in plains, sunflower plains, and flower forest, poppies have a chance of generating on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 7×5×7 area. When bone meal is applied to a poppy that has been placed on top of a grass block, more poppies appear on top of nearby grass blocks. Dandelions can also occasionally appear, and poppies can occasionally appear when bone meal is applied to dandelions. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

  Mob loot
    Iron golems drop 0 to 2 poppies upon death. This is unaffected by the Looting enchantment. Endermen can pick up poppies, like any other one-block-tall flower, and drop one if killed while holding it. In Java Edition, baby villagers may give a poppy to players with the Hero of the Village effect.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Poppy,Village,Plains house chest,1,"12.1% { ""item"": ""Poppy"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.12068353467250137, ""structure"": ""Village"", ""container"": ""Plains house chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Poppy,Village,Plains house chest,1,"12.1% { ""item"": ""Poppy"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.12068353467250137, ""structure"": ""Village"", ""container"": ""Plains house chest"" }"

  Trading
    Wandering traders may sell a poppy for a single emerald.

Usage
    Like other flowers, poppies can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Poppies can also be placed in flower pots.

  Crafting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Dye,Poppy,"[[None, None, None], [None, '', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Suspicious stew
    Using a poppy to make suspicious stew, whether by direct crafting or by feeding a brown mooshroom and then milking it with a bowl, imbues it with a Night Vision effect that lasts 8 seconds in Java Edition and 6 seconds in Bedrock Edition.

    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Red Mushroom + Brown Mushroom + Bowl + Poppy,"[[None, None, None], ['Red Mushroom', 'Brown Mushroom', None], ['Bowl', '', None]]"

  Bees
    Bees engage in a pollinating behavior with poppies, increasing the honey level in beehives and bee nests by 1.

  Breeding
    Poppies can be used to breed, grow, and lead bees.

  Bee nests
    Oak, birch, and cherry trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of a poppy have a 5% chance to grow with a bee nest and 1-3 bees in it.

  Composting
    Placing a poppy into a composter has a 65% chance of raising the compost level by 1. A stack of poppies yields an average of 5.94 bone meal.

