Overview
    A pressure plate is a non-solid block that produces a redstone signal when stood on by an entity, with four variants: Wooden pressure plates can detect all entities, producing the maximum signal strength of 15. Stone pressure plates can detect only players and mobs, also producing a strength of 15. Light weighted pressure plates can detect all entities, and the signal strength equals the number of entities stood on one. Heavy weighted pressure plates are similar to light weighted pressure plates, but measure groups of 10 entities.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A wooden pressure plate can be mined using any tool, or without a tool, and drops itself as an item. However, axes are the fastest way to break one. All other types can be obtained only by using a pickaxe.

    Block,Stone Polished Blackstone Weighted Pressure Plates,Wooden Pressure Plates
    Hardness,0.5,0.5
    Tool,wooden pickaxe,Axe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,2.5,0.75
    Wooden,0.4,0.4
    Stone,0.2,0.2
    Iron,0.15,0.15
    Diamond,0.1,0.1
    Netherite,0.1,0.1
    Golden,0.1,0.1

    A pressure plate is removed and drops itself as an item if:

  Natural generation
    One stone pressure plate is generated naturally in each desert pyramid. Stone pressure plate also generate as part of ancient city. Oak pressure plates can generate in some plains village houses. Acacia pressure plates can generate in some savanna village houses. Spruce pressure plates can generate in some snowy tundra village houses.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Light Weighted Pressure Plate,Ruined portal,Chest,1,"7.3% { ""item"": ""Light Weighted Pressure Plate"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.0729006411312747, ""structure"": ""Ruined portal"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Light Weighted Pressure Plate,Ruined portal,Chest,1,"7.3% { ""item"": ""Light Weighted Pressure Plate"", ""stacksize"": 1, ""chance"": 0.0729006411312747, ""structure"": ""Ruined portal"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"

  Crafting
    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Wooden Pressure Plate,Matching Planks,"[[None, None, None], ['Oak Planks', 'Oak Planks', None], [None, None, None]]"
    Stone Pressure Plate,Stone,"[[None, None, None], ['Stone', 'Stone', None], [None, None, None]]"
    Polished Blackstone Pressure Plate,Polished Blackstone,"[[None, None, None], ['Polished Blackstone', 'Polished Blackstone', None], [None, None, None]]"
    Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate,Iron Ingot,"[[None, None, None], ['Iron Ingot', 'Iron Ingot', None], [None, None, None]]"
    Light Weighted Pressure Plate,Gold Ingot,"[[None, None, None], ['Gold Ingot', 'Gold Ingot', None], [None, None, None]]"

Usage
  Crafting ingredient
  Redstone component
    A pressure plate can be used to detect entities on top of it (players, mobs, items, etc.). Placement To place a pressure plate, use it while aiming at the face of a block adjacent to the destination space. A pressure plate can be attached to: A pressure plate cannot be attached to the side or bottom of any block, but attempting to make such an attachment may cause the plate to attach to the top of a block under the destination space. For example, if a fence is on the ground, attempting to attach a plate to the side of the fence causes the plate to be attached to the top of the ground next to the fence instead. More information regarding placement on transparent blocks can be found at Opacity/Placement. Activation A pressure plate activates when an entity is on top of it (specifically, when the entity's collision mask intersects the bottom quarter-block of the pressure plate's space, which may include entities flying close to the ground), with a minimum activation time of 1 second. A stone pressure plate is activated only by mobs, players and armor stands, while a wooden pressure plate or a weighted pressure plate is activated by all entities (including players, mobs, items, arrows, experience orbs, fishing bobs, etc.) besides snowballs. Once activated, a pressure plate checks if entities are still present at regular intervals. Heavy or light weighted pressure plates check every 5 redstone ticks, starting 5 redstone ticks after activation, so they deactivate up to 5 redstone ticks (10 game ticks or 0.5 seconds, barring lag) after no entities are on top of them. Stone or wooden pressure plates check every 10 redstone ticks, starting 10 redstone ticks after activation, so they deactivate up to 10 redstone ticks (20 game ticks or 1 second, barring lag) after no entities are on top of them. A minecart traveling on rails activates a pressure plate next to a diagonal track but not one next to a straight track (stone pressure plates are activated only if the minecart contains a mob or player). Behavior

    Signal Strength,Number of entities required
    Light Weighted (Golden),Heavy Weighted (Iron)
    0,0,0
    1,1,1–10
    2,2,11–20
    3,3,21–30
    4,4,31–40
    5,5,41–50
    6,6,51–60
    7,7,61–70
    8,8,71–80
    9,9,81–90
    10,10,91–100
    11,11,101–110
    12,12,111–120
    13,13,121–130
    14,14,131–140
    15,15+,141+

    While active, a pressure plate: For stone and wooden pressure plates, the power level is always 15. For weighted pressure plates, the power level varies depending on the number of entities. The signal strength from a weighted pressure plate does not vary with the type of entity: all entities have the same "weight", so two mobs produce the same strength as two dropped items. An item stack counts as a single entity, no matter how many items are in the stack. When multiple items of the same type fall on a weighted pressure plate, they may initially be separate item entities and the weighted pressure plate counts them separately, but if they then collapse into a single item stack entity the signal strength from the weighted pressure plate may go down. Water and lava flows around a pressure plate without affecting it. A pressure plate is not solid (it is not a barrier to entity movement). A block under a pressure plate can provide a solid barrier underneath it (for mobs to walk across, items to fall on, etc.), but when a pressure plate is placed on a block with a small collision mask, such as a fence or nether brick fence, it is possible for entities to move through the pressure plate while still activating it (walking through it horizontally, or falling through it vertically). Thus, a pressure plate on a fence can be used to detect entities without stopping them (more compactly than a tripwire circuit). Pressure plates are 0.0625 blocks high (1⁄16 of a block) when inactive and 0.03125 blocks high (1⁄32 of a block) when active, but because they are not solid they do not affect the position of entities "on top" of them, so a player on top of a pressure plate is actually standing on the block beneath it. Pressure plates can also open doors, activate TNT, and power command blocks.

  Fuel
    Wooden pressure plates can be used as a fuel in furnaces, smelting 1.5 items per pressure plate.

  Note Blocks
    Wooden pressure plates can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass" sounds. Stone pressure plates can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

