Overview
    Red sand is a variation of sand found exclusively in the badlands.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Red sand can be broken without tools, but a shovel is the fastest method of obtaining it.

    Block,Red Sand
    Hardness,0.5
    Tool,Shovel
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,0.75
    Wooden,0.4
    Stone,0.2
    Iron,0.15
    Diamond,0.1
    Netherite,0.1
    Golden,0.1

  Natural generation
    Red sand generates naturally in badlands biomes and variants, always in a single layer. Unlike sand, there is no red sandstone that supports it below.

  Trading
    Wandering traders sell 4 red sand for one emerald.‌

  Renewability
    The only renewable method of obtaining red sand is through the wandering trader. Due to its low spawning rate and limited number of trades per spawn, it is more practical to obtain it through other means.

Usage
    If the supporting block below a block of red sand is removed, it falls until it lands on the next available block. More specifically, the red sand block turns into a "falling block" entity, which is affected by gravity; when the falling block lands on a block with a solid top surface, it becomes a block again. More information about the falling block entity is available in the main article listed above. If falling red sand lands and covers the head of a mob or the player, the mob or player buried in it continuously receives suffocation damage. If falling red sand lands in the space occupied by a non-solid block (such as torch, rail, or redstone dust) or a block less than a full block tall (such as slab or soul sand[1]), the red sand drops and turns into an item. If it falls onto a cobweb, it falls slowly until it has gone through completely; if it touches the ground while still inside the cobweb, the red sand becomes an item. Red sand that falls onto a lifting bubble column floats on top of the water until the bubble column is blocked or removed. Though TNT does not break any blocks if it explodes underwater, if red, sand, concrete powder (in one-block-deep water only), or gravel falls and covers the TNT before it explodes, blocks are broken as normal. This trick can be used to collect blocks underwater, or break into underwater structures such as the ocean monument without mining.

  Crafting ingredient
  Smelting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Smelting recipe
    Glass,Red Sand + Any fuel,0.1

  Construction
    Red sand can be used in the construction of airlocks and mob suffocation traps. Because red sand falls, it can also be used for construction underwater while the player remains above the surface of the water.

  Farms
    Cactus can only be placed on red sand or sand, and can also be used for farming bamboo, sugar cane and kelp.

  Hatching
    A turtle egg can hatch on red sand, but not any other non-sand block.

  Note Blocks
    Red sand can be placed under note blocks to produce "snare drum" sound.

