Overview
    Redstone ore is the ore block from which redstone is obtained. Deepslate redstone ore is a variant of redstone ore that can generate in deepslate and tuff blobs.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Redstone ore must be mined with an iron pickaxe or higher to drop redstone dust. When mined, it drops 4–5 redstone dust. It is affected by the Fortune enchantment, dropping 4-6, 4-7, or 4-8 redstone respectively with Fortune I, II, and III (averaging at 6 redstone dust with Fortune level 3[1][2]). If mined with Silk Touch, it drops itself instead of redstone dust.

    Block,Redstone Ore,Deepslate Redstone Ore
    Hardness,3,4.5
    Tool,iron pickaxe,iron pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,15,22.5
    Wooden,7.5,11.25
    Stone,3.75,5.65
    Iron,0.75,1.15
    Diamond,0.6,0.85
    Netherite,0.5,0.75
    Golden,1.25,1.9

  Natural generation
    Redstone ore can generate in the Overworld in the form of ore blobs. Redstone ore generates in two batches per chunk. The first batch attempts to generate 4 times per chunk, in blobs of 0–10, evenly from levels -64 to 15. The second batch attempts to generate 8 times per chunk, in blobs of 0–10, from levels -63 to -32, being more common the lower the elevation. Redstone ore can replace stone, andesite, diorite, granite, polished andesite‌‌[BE  only], polished diorite‌‌[BE  only], polished granite‌‌[BE  only], tuff‌[JE  only], and deepslate. Any redstone ore that replaces tuff or deepslate becomes deepslate redstone ore.

Usage
  Light
    Redstone ore produces the light level of 9 and emits bright red powered redstone particle when clicked, updated, or contacted by almost any entity (among some of the exceptions are a sneaking player, fired arrows, fired fire charges, shulkers, shulker bullets, and the ender dragon). This effect continues until the redstone ore block receives a random block tick (averaging 68.27 seconds). This effect does not actually produce redstone power, but the block changes can be detected with an observer or a block update detector. Subsequent clickings on a redstone ore block causes it to emit an extra burst of particles per click.

  Smelting ingredient
    Name,Ingredients,Smelting recipe
    Redstone Dust,Redstone Ore or Deepslate Redstone Ore + Any fuel,0.7

  Note Blocks
    Redstone ore can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

