Overview
    Sculk is a block found abundantly in the deep dark or converted from other blocks by a sculk catalyst. Like most of the rest of the sculk family it drops experience when broken by a tool.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Sculk blocks can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the quickest. It always drops 1 experience if mined without Silk Touch.

  Natural generation
    Sculk are naturally generated in patch formations within the deep dark biome.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Sculk,Ancient City,Chest,4–10,"23.2% { ""item"": ""Sculk"", ""stacksize"": ""4–10"", ""chance"": 0.23238142813184637, ""structure"": ""Ancient City"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Sculk,Ancient City,Chest,4–10,"23.2% { ""item"": ""Sculk"", ""stacksize"": ""4–10"", ""chance"": 0.23238142813184637, ""structure"": ""Ancient City"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"

  Post-generation
    Sculk blocks generate when a mob dies within 8 blocks of a sculk catalyst, replacing blocks in the area with the sculk_replaceable tag, which includes the surface materials of most biomes in all three dimensions.

Usage
    Sculk blocks are primarily used for decoration. They have an animated texture that consists of glowing spots, but they do not illuminate the surroundings. It has a similar texture of an end portal viewed from above; however, this is not widely recognized as a subject for griefing.

  Spreading sculk charge
    Sculk blocks allow the charge created by sculk catalysts to travel through them, allowing the charge to convert blocks further away. There are certain conditions required for the sculk catalyst to spread toward other blocks. Spawning Zombie from a spawn egg into Lava located 1 block underneath close to the catalyst does not cause any spread. However, if a sculk block is nearby, it accepts the charge. The sculk charge does not remain forever, regardless of whether it is currently spreading. If a single standing sculk block containing a sculk charge is destroyed, the sculk charge vanishes. The sculk charge generates a sculk sensor or sculk shrieker if it is at least 4 blocks away from the sculk catalyst that created the charge, not to be confused with death location. The sculk charge does not always pick the same route, regardless if there's a sculk vein on a block. The sculk charge does not strictly move in a direction, instead it can loop back and forward before continuing going through a straight line of Sculk Blocks. The sculk charge can not turn blocks into sculk blocks, without going through the process of adding sculk vein to it. It is possible to protect blocks such as soul sand by surrounding them with blocks that it can't convert from all linear directions like iron blocks. However, if something at the top is obstructing the soul sand, it would prevent its function to move things in water up. The sculk charge is controlled by the sculk catalyst, which has its own NBT values. The pos in cursors is required for it to work.
Example: /data modify block -3 -60 -70 cursors set value [{"charge":1,"decay_delay":1,"update_delay":0,pos:[I;-2,-60,-70]}]

