Overview
    A sea lantern is an underwater light source that appears in ocean monuments and underwater ruins.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A sea lantern can be obtained only when mined with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch. When broken using anything other than a Silk Touch enchanted tool, it drops 2–3 prismarine crystals. The Fortune enchantment increases the number of prismarine crystals dropped. This method of obtaining sea lanterns is wasteful though; the 4 prismarine shards and up to 3 of the prismarine crystals used to craft it are non-retrievable.

    Block,Sea Lantern
    Hardness,0.3
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.45

    Each level of Fortune increases the maximum number of prismarine crystals dropped. The amount is capped at 5, so Fortune III simply increases the chance of getting 5 crystals.

  Natural generation
    Sea lanterns generate throughout ocean monuments, as well as in some ocean ruins.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Prismarine Shard + Prismarine Crystals,"[['Prismarine Shard', 'Prismarine Crystals', 'Prismarine Shard'], ['Prismarine Crystals', 'Prismarine Crystals', 'Prismarine Crystals'], ['Prismarine Shard', 'Prismarine Crystals', 'Prismarine Shard']]"

Usage
  Light source
    Sea lanterns emit a light level of 15, the brightest possible light level in the game.

  Conduit power
    Sea lanterns can be used to activate a conduit by building a structure around it. By doing this, the conduit emits the Conduit Power effect in a certain radius, depending on how many blocks are used to power it. Prismarine, dark prismarine, and prismarine bricks can also be used for this purpose.

  Note Blocks
    Sea lanterns can be placed under note blocks to produce "Clicks and Sticks" sound.

  Transparent block
    The Sea lantern blocks all sunlight, players and mobs suffocate inside it, and it blocks a Beacon beam, preventing the Beacon's activation. However, like transparent blocks, it does not prevent the opening of chests, monsters (including Slimes) cannot spawn on it, and it does not transfer a redstone signal. This behavior also occurs in Glowstone.

