Overview
    Seagrass is a non-solid plant block that generates in all oceans, except frozen oceans. Tall seagrass is a two-block high variety of seagrass.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Seagrass can be harvested only with shears. Using any other tool, item, or the player's fist destroys seagrass and causes it to drop nothing. When harvested with shears, regular seagrass drops itself as an item, and tall seagrass drops 2 seagrass items. Tall seagrass cannot be obtained in item form without using creative mode.

    Block,Seagrass
    Hardness,0
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.05
    Shears,0.05

  Natural generation
    Seagrass generates in either its tall or small form in rivers, non-frozen oceans, underwater caves and swamps, replacing ice[1] and planks[2] as necessary. To generate seagrass, the water column it is in must have access to the sky.

  Mob loot
    Turtles drop 0–2 seagrass when killed. Looting increases the maximum number of possible seagrass drops by 1 per level.

  Post-generation
    Using bone meal on a non-transparent block‌[Java Edition  only], or dirt, coarse dirt, sand, red sand, gravel, or clay‌[Bedrock Edition  only] that is underwater generates seagrass on that block and its surrounding blocks. In order for this to work, there must be 2 water blocks above the block the bone meal is being used on, and the lower one must be non-flowing water. This does not work in Bedrock Edition, due to MCPE-171383.

Usage
    The seagrass item can be placed only on non-transparent blocks. It breaks when non-transparent blocks move into its hitbox. Like grass, snow layers, and other such blocks, placing blocks inside seagrass deletes the seagrass. However, seagrass prevents coral fan placement.‌[Bedrock Edition  only][3] Tall seagrass has a hitbox considerably more appropriate for its size than other two-block-tall plants such as tall grass.[4] Seagrass is completely resistant to lava trying to flow into it, allowing for lava to be floating on top of the water.[5]

  Breeding
    Seagrass can be used to lead and breed turtles.

  Bone meal
    Applying bone meal to a regular seagrass transforms it to tall seagrass if there is enough space. The bone meal is wasted if insufficient space exists.[6]

  Composting
    Placing seagrass into a composter has a 30% chance of raising the compost level by 1.

  Growing turtles
    Using seagrass on a baby turtle accelerates its growing time. When the turtle becomes an adult, it drops one scute.

