Overview
    A smoker is a block that smelts food twice as quickly as a furnace but cannot smelt anything else. It also serves as a butcher's job site block.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    A smoker can be picked up using any pickaxe. If mined without a pickaxe, it does not drop itself. Smokers drop their contents when broken.

    Block,Smoker
    Hardness,3.5
    Tool,wooden pickaxe
    Breaking time (sec) [A]
    Default,17.5
    Wooden,2.65
    Stone,1.35
    Iron,0.9
    Diamond,0.7
    Netherite,0.6
    Golden,0.45

  Natural generation
    Smokers can generate in butcher houses in villages.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Any Log or Stem or Any Stripped Log or Stem or Any Wood or Hyphae or Any Stripped Wood or Hyphae + Furnace,"[[None, 'Oak Log', None], ['Oak Log', 'Furnace', 'Oak Log'], [None, 'Oak Log', None]]"

Usage
    Smokers cannot be pushed by pistons.‌[Java Edition  only]

  Smelting
    Smokers are used to cook food items twice as fast as a regular furnace. It is the counterpart to the blast furnace, which is used to quickly smelt ores, metal tools and armor. When a food item and a fuel item are placed into the smoker, the block state changes to lit and the item cooks. Fuel is used at double the rate of regular furnaces, so the number of items cooked per fuel stays the same. The product can then be collected by pressing use on the smoker or by collecting the output using a hopper. Smokers cannot cook chorus fruit, as popped chorus fruit is not edible.

  Changing profession
    If a village has a smoker that has not been claimed by a villager, any nearby villager who hasn't chosen a job site block has a chance to change their profession to butcher.

  Light source
    Smokers emit a light level of 13 when active, just like normal furnaces.

  Custom name
    By default, the interface of a smoker is labeled "Smoker", but this name can be customized by naming it in an anvil before placing it, or by changing the CustomName tag using the /data command‌[Java Edition  only].

  Lock
    In Java Edition, a smoker can be "locked" by setting its Lock tag using the /data command. If a smoker's Lock tag is not blank, the smoker cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item with the same name as the Lock tag's text. For example, to lock a smoker at (0,64,0) so that the smoker cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item named "Smoker Key", use /data merge block 0 64 0 {Lock:"Smoker Key"}.

  Note Blocks
    Smoker can be placed under note blocks to produce "bass drum" sounds.

