Overview
    Stained glass is a dyed variant of the glass block.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Stained glass drops itself only if it is broken with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch. Otherwise, it drops nothing. Stained glass does not have an assigned tool; it is mined at the same speed regardless of what tool is used.[1]

    Block,Stained Glass
    Hardness,0.3
    Breaking time (secs)
    Default,0.45

  Natural generation
    Magenta stained glass blocks naturally generate as windows in end cities. Brown stained glass blocks generate in trail ruins.

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Glass + Matching Dye,"[['Glass', 'Glass', 'Glass'], ['Glass', 'White Dye', 'Glass'], ['Glass', 'Glass', 'Glass']]"

Usage
    Stained glass blocks adjacent to other glass blocks are invisible when viewed through glass that is identical in color. Mobs cannot normally spawn on stained glass blocks. An exception to this is zombie reinforcements, which can spawn on stained glass blocks (but not stained glass panes). Stained glass blocks cannot be seen through by mobs, as they treat them as completely opaque. Mobs may look at players through stained glass, but this is purely visual. Redstone dust and components can be placed on stained glass, but cannot power stained glass. Stained glass can't cut vertical redstone. Vertical redstone can be placed on stained glass. In Java Edition, it transmits redstone signals up, not down. Otherwise, stained glass in redstone circuits is functionally the same as an upside-down slab.

  Beacon beam color
    The color of the beam may be changed by placing blocks of stained glass (or stained glass panes) anywhere above the beacon block. The beam changes colors according to the colors of glass placed above it: the first block sets the beam color, while each additional block sets the color by averaging the red, green, and blue components of the current beam color and the block's color. The color values are the same as those for the corresponding dye. This also works using hardened stained glass and hardened stained glass panes.‌[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only] Stained glass panes have the same effect on the beam as stained glass blocks. The resulting beam color can be found as C=12n+1(c0+∑i=1n2i−1ci)where ci is the sequence of glass colors (c0 corresponds to the lowest block and cn to the highest one). As the blending algorithm is considerably simpler than that of leather-dyeing, a much larger part of the sRGB space is available.[more information needed] A player may experiment with stacking glass, although programs that calculate combinations are also available.[2] With only 15 types of stained glass you can make all colors, for example; red + white stained glass above a beacon will be pink, the more white you add, the lighter the color will be.

  Crafting ingredient
