Overview
    A tripwire hook is a block that emits a redstone signal when it is part of a valid tripwire circuit and it gets triggered by an entity.

Obtaining
  Breaking
    Tripwire hooks can be broken instantly using any tool, or without a tool. A tripwire hook is also removed and drops itself as an item if: A tripwire hook is destroyed without dropping itself as an item if lava flows into its space.

  Natural generation
    Four tripwire hooks are generated naturally in each jungle temple.

  Chest loot
    Item,Structure,Container,Quantity,Chance
    Java Edition
    Tripwire Hook,Pillager Outpost,Chest,1–3,"30.5% { ""item"": ""Tripwire Hook"", ""stacksize"": ""1–3"", ""chance"": 0.3049868519909842, ""structure"": ""Pillager Outpost"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"
    Bedrock Edition
    Tripwire Hook,Pillager Outpost,Chest,1–3,"30.5% { ""item"": ""Tripwire Hook"", ""stacksize"": ""1–3"", ""chance"": 0.3049868519909842, ""structure"": ""Pillager Outpost"", ""container"": ""Chest"" }"

  Crafting
    Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Iron Ingot + Stick + Any Planks,"[[None, 'Iron Ingot', None], [None, 'Stick', None], [None, 'Oak Planks', None]]"

  Fishing
    Tripwire hooks can be obtained as a "junk" item from fishing.

Usage
    Tripwire hooks can be used as crafting ingredients or as redstone circuit components.

  Crafting ingredient
    Tripwire hooks can be used to craft trapped chests and crossbows.

    Name,Ingredients,Crafting recipe
    Crossbow,Stick + Iron Ingot + String + Tripwire Hook,"[['Stick', 'Iron Ingot', 'Stick'], ['String', '', 'String'], [None, 'Stick', None]]"
    Trapped Chest,Tripwire Hook + Chest,"[[None, None, None], ['', 'Chest', None], [None, None, None]]"

  Redstone component
    A tripwire hook can be used to detect mobs, items, and other entities over a large area. Placement To place a tripwire hook, use the Place Block control. In order to function correctly, a tripwire hook must be part of a "tripwire circuit": a straight line of blocks consisting of a block with a tripwire hook attached to it, a "tripwire line" (1 to 40 blocks of tripwire), and a second tripwire hook attached to another block, with both tripwire hooks facing the tripwire. To place tripwire, use the Place Block control with a string. Tripwire in a valid tripwire circuit has a short hitbox (0.09375 or 3/32 blocks high, with the bottom 0.0625 or 1/16 blocks above the block below), while tripwire not in a valid tripwire circuit has a taller hitbox (0.5 blocks high, bottom not raised). A tripwire hook in an invalid tripwire circuit appears "folded", while a tripwire hook in a valid tripwire circuit appears extended straight. Tripwire lines from separate tripwire circuits can be placed next to each other (in parallel), above each other, and even intersecting each other. Activation A tripwire hook in a valid tripwire circuit activates when certain entities (players, mobs, items, etc.) intersect the tripwire hook's tripwire line "hitbox" (but not the tripwire hook itself), and deactivates when all entities leave or are removed from the tripwire line. Entities that cannot activate a tripwire circuit include thrown potions, some arrows, fireworks, thrown ender pearls, and thrown eyes of ender. A tripwire hook also activates for 5 redstone ticks (0.5 seconds, barring lag) when any of its tripwires are destroyed, except when shears are used to destroy the tripwire. Breaking the tripwire hook, or breaking the block it is attached to, does not generate a pulse. Behavior While active, a tripwire hook appears to move downward and it:
powers any adjacent redstone dust to power level 15, including beneath the tripwire hook
powers any adjacent redstone comparators or redstone repeaters facing away from the tripwire hook to power level 15
strongly powers its attachment block to power level 15
activates any adjacent mechanism components, including above or below, such as pistons, redstone lamps, etc. Tripwire produces no power itself, but its state change can be detected with an observer. Although destroying tripwire with shears cannot activate a tripwire hook, it changes the tripwire hook's block state (its "attached" state from true to false), which can be detected with an observer.

  Trading
    Master-level fletcher villagers have a 2⁄3 chance to buy 8 tripwire hooks for an emerald as part of their trades in Java Edition, and always offer the trade in Bedrock Edition.

